---
title: Affection
subtitle: Week 4
---

When you express love to your little one through gentle touch, kind actions, tender looks, and caring words, your affection says, “You’re special to me. I’m so glad we’re together!” Affection is a way of communicating to our babies that they are valued.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ What’s your favorite way of showing affection to your baby? Do you enjoy cuddling most? Do you tell her about your love with kind words? Do you spend lots of time laughing and playing with him?
+ Pause for a moment to reflect on the ways you like to show affection to your little one.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

It’s an amazing thought to consider that our Father in heaven is affectionate toward us. His love is not an abstract concept. It’s also not limited to historical acts, such as creation and redemption. His affection for His children is a longing that bubbles up in His divine heart and declares, “I’m so glad we’re together!” Read the following verses and discuss what they tell us about God’s affection. Is there anything new or surprising to you in these concepts?

- John 14:1-3
- Zephaniah 3:17
- Isaiah 40:11
- Exodus 25:8
- Numbers 6:24-26

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect and Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Silently read the following quotes, then discuss the questions that follow.

> “Love cannot long exist without expression” (Ellen G. White, _The Adventist Home_, p. 107).

> “In many families there is a great lack in expressing affection one for another. . . . Every hasty word should be checked, and there should not be even the appearance of the lack of love one for another” (Ellen G. White, in _Signs of the Times_, November 14, 1892).

+ If we feel stressed, tired, or annoyed with the concerns of home life, is it wrong to fake an affectionate response to our babies? How might you separate life’s burdens from nurturing your little one with authenticity?
+ In your home, what are some reasons that love and affection might exist but not be expressed?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

+ As a group, make a list of different ways you can show affection to your baby.
+ How much time do you spend each day intentionally showing your baby how glad you are to be together? What can you do to cultivate more affection for your baby (and others in your family) this week?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Pray for each other—to appreciate God’s affection for you more\
this week. Thank God for giving you such a precious baby to love.\
Ask Him to help you show tender affection to your child, no matter\
the circumstances.\
\
“And this is my prayer: that your love may abound more and more\
in knowledge and depth of insight, so that you may be able to discern\
what is best and may be pure and blameless”\
(Philippians 1:9, 10, NIV).