---
title: Boundaries
subtitle: Week 5
---

The happiest children are those who have a warm, close, and loving connection with their parents who have clear rules and boundaries. When a parent’s love is combined with clear limits, it’s easier for a child to obey. If we are harsh, our children learn to feel angry and rebellious. If we neglect to show love, they become sad. If we love them without boundaries, they may feel confused and learn to be entitled. Growing a heart of love for our babies involves lovingly guiding them with certain limits.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ How well do you set your own boundaries? What will your child see you modeling as they grow? Are you able to say no graciously yet firmly?
+ What mental associations do you have with the word “obedience”?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

Read Ephesians 6:1-4 and Colossians 3:20.

+ What are the benefits of teaching obedience to our children?
+ Have you ever thought that disciplining your child will provoke them to anger? How could a lack in discipline lead to permissive and “anything goes” parenting?
+ How can you safeguard your discipline so that you don’t provoke frustration or anger?

Read Deuteronomy 21:18-21.

+ What are the dangers of allowing our children to grow up disobedient and rebellious?
+ How can we teach obedience in a way that is winsome and reasonable?
+ Why is it helpful to aim for first-time obedience, complete obedience, and unchallenged obedience, particularly when our children are young?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Read the following and paraphrase it in your own words. 

How might you apply these principles to your parenting now and in the years ahead?

“At a very early age children can comprehend what is plainly and simply told them, and, by kind and judicious management, can be taught to obey. . . . The mother should not allow her child to gain an advantage over her in a single instance; and, in order to maintain this authority, it is not necessary to resort to harsh measures; a firm, steady hand and a kindness which convinces the child of your love will accomplish the purpose. But let selfishness, anger, and self-will have their course for the first three years of a child’s life, and it will be hard to bring it to submit to wholesome discipline” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, pp. 82, 83).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Discuss the following ideas and choose one—or share one of your own—that you’d like to implement over the coming week.

+ Be gentle but consistent when you require your baby to do something he doesn’t want to do, such as taking a nap or waiting longer to eat.
+ Explain the daily actions and choices you are making for your baby, even though she cannot yet understand you.
+ Make up fun little songs you can sing at “transition” times in your daily routine.
+ Make a decision that “rules should be few and well considered; and when once made, they should be enforced” (Ellen G. White, _Education_, p. 290).
+ Don’t enforce confusing boundaries at home—letting bad behaviors slide until you snap. Instead, be consistent with your routines and expectations.
+ Reflect on your own boundaries and how you’re modeling these to your baby.
+ Prioritize self-care and time with God so you’ll have energy and kindness to follow through with your boundaries.

Your baby is learning about boundaries now. You can teach her that no means no (Matthew 5:37). As she grows, what kinds of healthy boundaries will she need to create for herself?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Prayer]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Ask God for wisdom and help as you set gentle, kind, and\
loving limits with your child, remembering that He is gentle, kind,\
and loving when we make mistakes.