---
title: Household Dialog
---

> <p></p>
> “Put away from you a deceitful mouth, and put perverse lips far from you” (Prov. 4:24, NKJV).

Years ago, I read an interesting article in a newspaper from Porto Velho, Brazil, called “Marital Happiness” by Cílio Bocannera. He mentions a work presented by a Professor Howard Markman from Denver University during a conference for specialists in marital therapy in London. He stated that “the way a couple argues defines how successful the marriage will be.” That is, “the tactics the husband and wife use in their arguing is a good clue to the likelihood of divorce.”

It is interesting that Professor Markman studied a thousand couples that frequently argued. He then concluded that the most endangered couples were those who run away from the argument and those who allow minor subjects become great disputes.

We know this is very common. There are couples who disagree about where to put soap in the bathroom or how to squeeze the toothpaste tube. They allow small disagreements to affect other more important points in life. Finally, the relationship ends in separation and divorce. Sometimes even more fatal mistakes are made.

Professor Markman mentions some thing that requires serious and deep reflection. He says, “An insult or offense toward another erases five, ten or sometimes more than twenty acts of kindness in a relationship.”

If couples are thinking about separation, they should stop and think about the wounded hearts they will cause in their children, the absence of father or mother from their children, the lack of support, advice and companionship caused by divorce. Couples should think carefully about how their choices will impact others.

As rational and intelligent beings, we should spend less time arguing about small things and focus more on listening. Seek to understand your spouse’s point of view. Even if you disagree with their perspec tive, try to keep happiness and peace in your home. Be willing to give up your position. Learn to be tolerant. Try to reach a point of agree ment.

There is no substitute for the positive effect of kind words and acts of loves inspired by God’s love on the hearts of those within our homes.

_—Daily Meditations, p. 152_