---
title: Two Sides of Sanctification
---

_Bonita Joyner Shields_

Some people believe that discipleship and stewardship are one and the same. As a former discipleship coordinator and now a stewardship director, I disagree. Having said that, I have, after studying both, arrived at the conclusion that they are two sides of the same coin.

The coin: sanctification.

Before I begin, let me say that this is the first time I’ve presented these thoughts in a formal setting. They have been germinating in my mind for several years. So, please, let’s dialogue. I believe discipleship and stewardship are very important to our sanctification. In my presentation I use the terms _process_ and _practice_. My intention is not to place these two aspects of our Christian lives into a box. However, these terms aid me in explaining my hypothesis.

Discipleship is a _process_ through which believers travel as they express their faith and obedience. Through this process we grow in their connection with God, self, and others; in our understanding of Jesus and His teachings; in our service in God’s mission of revelation and reconciliation; and in our living in community to help one another know, love, and serve God. (This process is explained more fully later in the presentation.)

Stewardship is a _practice_ through which believers express their faith and obedience. Through this practice we grow in their faithfulness in managing the tangible and intangible resources of God that He has so graciously bestowed on us in our new life. These resources include our time, our abilities, our possessions, our relationships, even God’s grace. (To understand more about the role of faithful stewardship in our lives, go to www.nadstewardship.org.)

Of course, process and practice overlap. Being a fruitful disciple and a faithful steward are both works of faith. Both require obedience. Both are essential aspects of the work of sanctification in our lives—which we all know is a work of a lifetime.

In this next section I will give a history of the process of discipleship that was identified by the General Conference and Andrews University and unpack the concept. I will also unpack the concept of stewardship.

### Together Growing Fruitful Disciples In Context

In 2005 a vision was cast at the General Conference session for the 2005–2010 quinquennium for the _Tell the World_ initiative. Part of this initiative was Disciples Alive!—a comprehensive, integrated thrust created by Mike Ryan, GC vice president, and Marty Feldbush, director of GC Chaplaincy Ministries. The purpose of Disciples Alive! was to refocus and align the departments around a common paradigm, diminish overlap, identify gaps for more efficient and comprehensive discipling, and enable departments to focus their expertise on the common task of discipling.

In 2006 the General Conference invited Jane Thayer of the SDA Theological Seminary to present on the subject of discipleship, in which she introduced the four processes of discipleship: connecting, understanding, ministering, and equipping. From that beginning, the steering committee of the General Conference Ministries Committee (MINCOM) developed a working theology of discipleship and, the same year, MINCOM adopted the concept of discipleship as a paradigm for itself.

In 2007 MINCOM renamed the discipleship thrust _Growing Disciples_ and an in-house management team was named: Ron Flowers, Kathy Beagles, Maria Ovando-Gibson, and Bonita Shields. The _Growing Disciples_ concept was presented to the 2007 Annual Council.

During the years of 2007–2009, Kathy Beagles (assistant professor, Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary) validated the _Growing Disciples in Community_ model in her dissertation using Valuegenesis 2 data, with equipping as the independent variable (or discipling aspect) and the others—connecting, understanding, and ministering—as the personal processes of personal discipleship.

During the years 2009–2010, Glynis Bradfield (CIRCLE, director, Andrews University) validated a self-assessment aligned to the _Growing Disciples_ framework, with a sample of adolescents in three world divisions: North American, Southern Africa-Indian Ocean, and South Pacific. This confirmed the four-process model. Based on her research, an assessment tool is available online at www.growingfruitfuldisciples.com.

In 2010, because of trademark issues, _Growing Disciples_ was renamed _Together Growing Fruitful Disciples_ (TGFD). Also, during this year Ron Flowers retired, Bonita Shields assumed leadership, and TGFD was placed in the General Conference Sabbath School and Personal Ministries Department (SSPM).

During the years of 2010–2016, the events listed below took place (not an exhaustive list):

#### 2011

- The TGFD framework is shared with Sabbath School and Personal Ministries (SSPM) division counterparts during the SSPM advisory in Silver Spring, Maryland.

- The Greater Sydney Conference implemented the TGFD model in their conference, churches, and schools.

#### 2012

- _In Step With Jesus_, the New Members’ Bible Study Guide, based on the TGFD framework, was developed.

- The _Journal of Adventist Education_ (JAE) dedicated the entire Summer issue to discipleship.

- Kathy Beagles, Glynis Bradfield, and Bonita Shields gave TGFD presentations at the NAD Teachers’ Convention. The special issue of JAE was placed in each teacher registration bag.

- The GC Youth Ministries Department created a five-series discipleship curriculum based on the TGFD framework.

#### 2013

- Bonita Shields met with Lawrence Burn and Dale Goodson from Adventist Frontier Mission to discuss how TGFD could inform their work. Burn and Goodson voiced their desire to have the GC develop principles/guidelines for discipleship to guide them in their work.

- Bonita Shields met with Rick McEdward from GC Adventist Mission to discuss the church’s need for a discipleship model in the context of mission.

- Bonita Shields met with Paul Brantley and several NAD church pastors as a discipleship consultant in Wingdale, New York. This meeting preceded the Urban Mission Conference, for which she gave an opening address and presented a workshop on discipleship.

- Shields presented a five-lesson course on teaching for discipleship in workshops to GC and world leaders.

I share this history not to put you to sleep! I share it to show how this model has been taught to many throughout the world field and hopefully to show its potential to help the world church operate under a common understanding of the discipleship process.

### What Is Together Growing Fruitful Disciples

This model includes two primary elements:

**The Framework**. This framework describes the process of discipleship that I mentioned earlier: connecting with God, self, and others; understanding Jesus and His teachings; serving in God’s mission of revelation and reconciliation; and living in community to help one another to know, love, and serve God.

Within this framework are listed commitments, statements of action that reveal our dedication to the process of discipleship. For example, if I am connecting with God, self, and others, one of the ways through which I commit to this is to develop a dynamic, deepening relationship with God by communing with Him regularly through His Word, prayer, and other Christian disciplines; participating with other believers in worshipping God on Sabbath and at other times; paying attention to what God is doing and praising Him for His love and faithfulness, etc.

This is _not_ a checklist. It merely offers commitments that we believe growing disciples make to God and to themselves as they seek to walk in faith and obedience to Jesus, and indicators that the Spirit is working in their lives.

**Spiritual Growth Inventory**. A user of the website will create a free online account, then answer an 84-question survey that will give real-time feedback regarding the person’s spiritual growth in relation to the TGFD discipleship model. For example, a user will answer such questions as “I am deepening my relationship with God,” “I am sharing my faith through my daily activities,” “I am encouraging others to spend time with God daily,” etc. From these answers, a graph will be created showing in what areas a person is strong in their discipleship journey and in what areas he or she has needed growth.

This tool was created with the world church in mind: something not so specific that other contexts around the world couldn’t use it, or so nebulous that no one could use it.

But questions remain:

1. How can we use this tool to bring the church together in discipleship work?

2. How can we use this tool to equip our leaders in their discipling of members?

3. How can the member use it in their personal discipleship journey?

### Stewardship as Life Management

Just as important as the process of discipleship to our sanctification is the _**practice**_ of stewardship—managing the new life that God has given us as disciples of Christ—this includes tangible and intangible resources. To understand stewardship more fully, we have to go back to the beginning.

#### Reversal

We were created to be stewards. We were rulers of the free world— the Garden of Eden. But we believed the lie. What was the lie? The lie that Satan convinced Adam and Eve of in the Garden was this: _They didn’t have enough._

They didn’t have enough trees to pick from. They didn’t have enough knowledge.

They didn’t have enough respect.

God was withholding.

A relationship with God wasn’t enough.

Satan created in Adam and Eve a mind-set of scarcity (it’s never enough) and took away their mind-set of abundance (our Creator has given us all that we need). Satan succeeded in convincing them to focus on what they didn’t have, rather than on what they had. Thus, they had neither.

Not much different from today, is it?

Most Christians live in that same mind-set of scarcity. Rather than believe that God is the owner and the source of all we need, they believe they are the owner and source of all they need. Rather than believe that God has control of the world, they try to control the world and everyone around them! Rather than believe that God’s design for our lives is best, they believe their way is superior. Rather than embrace their roles as stewards/managers of God’s world, they have decided to take over the world! That’s a heavy burden. But the good news is that through Christ, we can be reinstated as stewards.

#### Redemption

First Timothy 1:3, 4: “As I urged you when I went into Macedonia, stay there in Ephesus so that you may command certain people not to teach false doctrines any longer or to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies. Such things promote controversial speculations rather than advancing God’s work—which is by faith” (NIV).

What did Paul consider “God’s work”? Did he use the word _euaggeli'on_, the Greek word from which we take “evangelize”? Did he use the word _erga'zomai_, which means “work, perform, do, acquire by labor”?

No. He used the word _oikonomian_.

“What’s that?” you ask.

That’s a form of the Greek word that is directly translated as

“stewardship.”

“Where did _that_ come from?” you ask.

My sentiments exactly.

Paul was in essence saying that _stewardship_ is God’s work. How could that be? Actually, stewardship is not an outdated concept, as many people think. Nor is it a method for pastors to fleece their flocks of their money. _Stewardship is an active, dynamic principle _for the Christian that has long been misunderstood and even ignored. _Stewardship is the means through which we learn to manage the new life God gives us as disciples in this present life, and to qualify us for the management of eternal things in the future life._

God’s work in redemption involves not only what He does through us, but what He does in us. It is so much bigger than what happens on Sabbath mornings or in evangelistic meetings. God’s redemption tells us that God is the Creator and Source of Life, that we were made in His image, that He is the owner of all we have, that we were given dominion over His world, and that we are His children and have all that we need.

### How Do Discipleship and Stewardship Align?

To answer this question, let me tell you a story.

Otto Koning was a missionary in New Guinea. He worked among a native tribe that had known only their village ways. One of those village ways was stealing from others. When Otto and his wife arrived and moved into a hut, the natives often came by to visit. The Konings would notice that after the natives left the missionaries’ home, various household items had disappeared. They saw these items again when they went to preach in the natives’ village.

The only fruit Otto could grow on the island was pineapples. Otto loved pineapples, and he took pride in the pineapples he was able to grow. However, whenever the pineapples began to ripen, the natives would steal them. Otto could never keep a ripe pineapple for himself. This was a frustration, and he became angry with the natives. All during the seven-year period in which this took place, Otto preached the gospel to these natives, but never had a conversion.

The more the natives stole, the angrier Otto became. Finally, one day Otto had a German shepherd dog flown in from another missionary to protect his pineapple garden after other frustrated efforts failed. This only further alienated the natives from him.

Otto took a furlough to the United States and attended a conference on personal rights. At this conference he discovered that he was frustrated over this situation because he had taken personal ownership of his pineapple garden. After much soul searching, he gave his garden to God. Soon the natives started having problems among their tribe. They discovered that Otto was the reason for their problems because he had given his garden to his God. The natives saw a correlation between what Otto had done and their own lives being affected by calamities in their village. When Otto gave his garden to God, he no longer got angry, and was free from worry. The natives started bringing him fruit from the garden because they didn’t want any more calamities to come into their village.

The light came on one day when a native said to Otto, “You must have become a Christian, Otto. You don’t get angry anymore. We always wondered if we would ever meet a Christian.” They had never associated Otto with the kind of person he was preaching about, because his message did not line up with his life. Otto was broken in spirit when he realized he had been such a failure.

At the end of seven years he witnessed his first conversion, and many began coming to Christ once he fully gave his garden to God. The fruit grew so abundant that Otto began exporting it and growing other types of fruit, such as bananas. His village became the most evangelized in the whole region, yet for seven years he had not one convert.

Otto realized something each of us must realize: To gain your life, you must lose it, along with your possessions. It was only when he gave all his possessions to God that he became free from them. God measured back to him manifold once He had complete ownership.

“Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it” (Matthew 10:39, ESV).*

### Challenge

It wasn’t until Otto became a faithful steward of what God had given him and acknowledged God as owner of all that he had did he became a fruitful disciple.

How might faithful stewardship impact your discipleship journey? https://coachellvalley.com/pineapple-story/

_Bonita Joyner Shields was director of stewardship for the North American Division when she gave this presentation. As of November 2019 she serves the North American Division as vice president for ministries._

_Prior to serving in the North American Division, Bonita Joyner Shields served for 14 years in the General Conference as an editor and assistant director for the discipleship in the Sabbath School and Personal Ministries Department and as an assistant editor of the Adventist Review/Adventist World. She began her ministry as an associate pastor of the Spencerville church in Silver Spring, Maryland. Shields received her undergraduate degree in theology at Washington Adventist University and her master’s degree in pastoral ministry from Andrews University. She holds certifications in financial coaching and stewardship. Shields believes that an understanding of our identity in Christ as not only fruitful disciples but faithful stewards of our entire lives will help God’s people live more gratefully, joyfully, and generously. She lives in Silver Spring, Maryland, with her husband, Roy, of almost 36 years._