---
title: Comfort
subtitle: Week 6
---

At this age, one of the most important ways you can meet your baby’s emotional needs is by consistently providing comfort when he is distressed. Soothing your baby quickly and consistently teaches him that you are a dependable source of comfort—an important lesson that will help him form a correct picture of God, our greatest Comforter.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ Can you recall a time someone comforted you in a memorable way? Share what makes you feel better when you’re distressed or sad.
+ When you’re able to soothe your baby, how does it make you feel? Have you had any special insights about the heart of God when you’re comforting your child?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

+ **Read** John 14:18 in several Bible versions. What does Jesus model here for parents to imitate?
+ God notices when we are sad, and He comforts us. To be a source of comfort for our children, we as parents should first be comforted by God. What does the Bible say about different sources of comfort? Contrast these with the comfort the world offers.
- Acts 9:31
- Romans 15:4
- 2 Corinthians 1:3-5
- 2 Corinthians 7:6

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Fast Facts

+ Babies cry for all kinds of reasons. They might be in pain, hungry, uncomfortable, thirsty, bored, lonely, afraid, or confused. Sometimes we don’t know why they cry.
+ Respond quickly when your baby cries. A baby’s understanding of object permanence develops around the age of 4-8 months, so if your baby cannot see you, she is not sure you exist.
+ Stay calm and try not to lose your temper when you are with her, even though you may be exhausted and frustrated. Let someone else care of her for a few minutes if possible, or walk away and take some deep breaths before returning.
+ Handle your baby’s delicate body gently and warmly, with a smile.
+ The more babies are comforted when they cry, the more their brain develops empathy and an ability to comfort others when they are older.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Read and discuss the following and the ideas that most stand out to you.

Sometimes we might misinterpret our child’s tears by giving them something to eat when really they just need a cuddle and our care and time.

“Every mother should have time to give her children these little endearments which are so essential during infancy and childhood. In this way, the mother would bind up the child’s heart and happiness with her own. She is to them what God is to us” (Ellen G. White manuscript 43, 1900, in _Letters and Manuscripts_, vol. 15, p. 271).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

This week, as you comfort your little one’s tears and distresses, remember that your soothing words and calm touches are teaching him about the love of God. Imagine yourself as an aqueduct, channeling God’s comfort to your baby. If you need comfort this week, turn from the artificial forms of comfort the world provides, and press deeper into Christ’s soothing presence. Ask Him to show Himself to you in a special way, and He will do it.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Ask God to soothe your baby through you.\
Ask for more of God’s Spirit so that you may represent Him\
to your baby and believe that He will do this for you.\
\
“Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted”\
(Matthew 5:4).