---
title: Birds, Bees, and the Bible
---

_Justin Kim_

Those involved in children’s ministry will tell you that teaching the Bible to young people is challenging. It’s not the teaching part—it’s choosing what not to teach. Start with Adam and Eve. Every children’s Bible finds creative (and humorous) ways to illustrate their nakedness. Noah’s ark is always taught, but surely not the part about his nakedness and Ham. The narratives of Abraham, Jacob, and Joseph are always included, but not the Hagar episode, Leah and Rachel fighting over their husband, and the Mrs. Potiphar’s garment incident. Many Bible passages have adult scenarios: the laws, the judges, the kings, prophets, epistles, and Revelation. There’s one book usually not found in children’s stories: Song of Songs. Even the story of Jesus’ parents and His birth require an explanation of the subtext.

Whether it’s convenient or not, the Bible paints a realistic picture of what most children’s resources avoid. Indeed, sexuality is a common motif throughout Scripture. For something so awkward and uncomfortable, why does the Holy Book mention it so much?

First, sexuality is so much a part of the human experience that any serious believer will want to understand what the Bible has to say about it. Adventists who believe in a literal six-day creation should believe that God is the author of all things involved in the human experience, including sexuality. Our belief in the soul does not separate the body from the spirit,
but entails a wholistic perspective on health, which includes a positive look at
creation’s sexuality.

Second, sexuality is used as a biblical motif to explain the depravity of humanity. It provides a backdrop of the evils that unfortunately exist, and from which God must save. It is clearly used by God as a motif in His prophetic illustrations and denunciations of the sinful heart. Intimacy and pleasure connote an intense close relationship, which, when betrayed, broken, or fragmented, results in the shattering of God’s heart because of human selfishness.

On the other side of the same coin, divine intimacy is also shown through sexual illustrations. The most romantic of relationships in Scripture is between Yahweh and Israel, the classic husband-and-wife couple found in both the Old and New Testaments. The female protagonist (that would be His people), however, struggles to remain physically, emotionally, and spiritually faithful to the relationship. These dynamics are portrayed in the most vivid and graphic of narratives, especially in many chapters of the major and minor prophets. They are not gratuitous, but shockingly reveal the inner intimacy of God’s heart.

Last, God intended sexuality to be good and holy. And followers of God must see the goodness and holiness intended for all things sexual in the human experience. When a biblical understanding of sexuality is attacked, distorted, maligned, misunderstood, or misconstrued, we are in danger of entering ground that is no longer good or holy.

This past year both publications of Adventist Review and Adventist World have sought to spotlight different topics that were directly or indirectly related to sexuality, its understanding, and its misunderstanding in the church. We hope to share more light than heat to provide clarity and hope.

May 2024 addressed the problem of sin and its solution: Jesus. Sexual sins are not the worst, but do unfortunately have great consequences on those involved. Nevertheless, our common conundrum is solved by Christ. November 2023 looked at the true identity of the Christian. While society points to gender, race, sexuality, and other categories for identity, the Adventist looks to Jesus and His Word. March 2024 sought to provide clarity and balance to the pragmatic issues of church discipline. The real purpose and a grace-oriented manner of church discipline should
be understood.

This brings us to this issue in Adventist Review and her sister, Adventist World. When comparing the Bible with the predominant popular culture, we need clarity on the biblical understanding of sexuality, especially in the arena of same-sex attraction. Our goal, in these pages, is to offer support and grace-filled counsel, especially to the Adventist community that is wrestling with issues surrounding relatives and family members engaged in alternative sexual lifestyles. We pray that our hope of His return also extends to hope on this earth as well. 