---
title: Five Reasons We Should Do Evangelism
---

### 1. It is God’s means of saving lost people.

That is why He has commanded us to do it (Matthew 28:18-20). The church has the essential vaccine that when shared will bring life to those who accept it in a world doomed to death. Through the preaching of the gospel, God is trying to give people their best chance that they may have to accept salvation.

### 2. Evangelism is God’s means for growing His church.

The book of Acts demonstrates how the church grew when the gospel was preached. If we want the church to grow we must do evangelism.

### 3. Evangelism is God’s means for unifying His church.

Some in the church say, “Our church is not united, we can’t do evangelism. We need nurture first.” The best nurture is witnessing-evangelism. At the time of Christ, which came first, the commission to go, or the unity of the church? Acts 1:8 shows it was the commission to go into all the world and witness. The goal was humanly impossible. When the church has such a big goal it forces unity to reach it. When members are focused on and doing outreach they have no time for fighting, disagreements, and disunity. They will unify around the mission.

### 4. Evangelism is God’s means of personal spiritual growth.

Should members be allowed to do evangelism if they have failed the Lord? Who among the disciples failed the Lord and slipped the farthest, aside from Judas? It was Peter who denied Jesus with swearing. The first time Jesus met him afterwards, did He say, “Peter, you need about three years to pull yourself together and increase in spiritual growth. Then you can do evangelism.” No, John 21:15-17 says that He told Peter to go to work. Within 50 days, Peter became the first public evangelist, and an extremely successful one.

God is calling us to do evangelism so that we can grow deeper and stronger in Him. Simply studying and praying every day without imparting will not bring about the spiritual growth Jesus desires. The Dead Sea is an example. It receives, but it does not impart. God could have sent the angels to preach, but He knows that “we can receive only as we impart to others. As we continue imparting, we continue to receive; and the more we impart, the more we shall receive.”<sup>2</sup> We need to share our faith to grow in Him.

### 5. Evangelism is God’s means for finishing His work.

Matthew 24:14 says the end will come when this gospel has been preached in all the world. There is no use praying for the end to come if you are not doing evangelism. It is God’s means of finishing His work. The church is to go out and tackle the strongholds of the devil and bring back captives for the Lord. God wants the whole church to work together in evangelism to finish His work.<sup>3</sup>

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> The Desire of Ages, p. 370.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> ShareHim Team, The Harvest Is Ready: ShareHim Boot Camp Training Manual, (Charlotte, North Carolina, 2005), Session 14: “Biblical Perspective of Evangelism,” pp. 3-5.