---
title: The Colors of our Family
date: 08/19/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> (Exo 39:1 NKJV) Of the blue, purple, and scarlet thread they made garments of ministry, for ministering in the holy place, and made the holy garments for Aaron, as the LORD had commanded Moses.

### Observation

Moses recounts with great detail all the materials used for the building of the furnishings of the sanctuary and of the clothing worn by the priests. As he closes the book of Exodus, Moses now reviews again all that was made, how and with what materials. The exquisite materials and colors must have made of this portable structure one that was not only beautiful but awe inspiring. Just a look at the sanctuary, even from a distant, must have cause people to pause and wonder about its significance as God’s abiding place on earth.

### Application

It occurs to me that we, as members of the family, come from so many different places, have different family, cultural, educational, financial, and maybe even racial background, have a variety of experiences which have made us who we are. And yet, it is as if God knits all these threads into a beautiful, colorful tapestry. That’s why divorce is so traumatic – it tears and mars God’s beautiful handiwork, and causes deep wounds that can never be completely restored.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, thank You for the beautiful weaving You’ve made, our family. Please make its beauty shine for Your glory and for the well being of each of its members.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._