---
title: The Power of a Woman
date: 07/05/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> The wise woman builds her house, but the foolish pulls it down with her hands. (Proverbs 14:1 NKJV)

### Observation

One of the many proverbs or sayings written by King Solomon.

### Application

Dennis Rainey, in his Family Life Marriage Bible, comments on this text: Every wife has the power to create or destroy her relationship with her husband. “The wise woman builds her house, but the foolish pulls it down with her hands” (14:1). . . Every man needs his wife’s respect; it’s one of his deepest needs. He has others, but your respect – or lack thereof – impacts his whole life.

He goes on to say: Respecting your husband includes really listening to him, not simply hearing the words that come out of his mouth. Take seriously what he says! . . . Some wives do not realize how powerful they can be in their husband’s life when they truly respect their man. . . and a wife should look for ways to affirm and respond to her husband’s leadership. It starts by praising him for those areas in which he deserves genuine respect.

I’m baffled at times to hear how some wives speak to and about their husbands and then complain that their marriage is not what they would like it to be or that they’re not treated like they think they should be. Applying the Golden Rule, if wives begin by affirming and showing appreciation and admiration for their husbands, even for the smallest of things they say or do, can build them up and in turn result in better husbands. Willard Harley writes that Admiration and Respect are among a man’s most important emotional needs, not a selfish desire. Showing admiration and respect for your husband is a gift to them, but it can also become a gift you give yourself.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, may we show and express more appreciation toward our spouse and thus meet their needs, and while doing so, may our marriage be strengthened.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._