---
title: Truthfulness
subtitle: Week 8
---

There are many external influences on character development. We now turn our attention to some qualities of character we can build into our little one’s lives.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ Share about a time you lied as a child. What was the outcome or consequence?

It’s not uncommon for people to lie, or stretch the truth, for personal gain.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

The Bible says many things about God (and Satan), but these particular verses highlight some important points.

+ What does Hebrews 6:18 tell us about God?
+ What does John 8:44 say about Satan?
+ Read Proverbs 6:16-20 and Philippians 4:8. What do you notice in these verses?

What a contrast God and Satan are—they’re polar opposites.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Consider these verses and their messages about truthfulness.

Which one speaks to you most? Why?

+ “Do not lie to each other. You have left your old sinful life and the things you did before” (Colossians 3:9, ICB).
+ “So you must stop telling lies. Tell each other the truth because we all belong to each other in the same body” (Ephesians 4:25, ICB).
+ “Lord, who may abide in Your tabernacle? Who may dwell in Your holy hill? He who walks uprightly, and works righteousness, and speaks the truth in his heart” (Psalm 15:1, 2).
+ “Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord, but those who deal truthfully are His delight” (Proverbs 12:22).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Read and Consider

From the time our baby learns to speak, we can emphasize the importance of always telling the truth. We will instill in our child a love for truth and honesty when we treat lying as a serious sin. This includes not only blatant lies but also exaggeration, white lies (twisting the truth), and even, at times, “jokes.”

Are there any lies that are seen as okay, even in parenting? Why are these lies still wrong, and how might they impact you when your child is older?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Consider the challenge in these thoughts:

“Never let your children have the semblance of an excuse for saying, Mother does not tell the truth. Father does not tell the truth … As children advance in years, parents should not give the slightest occasion for the sowing of that seed which will develop into deceit and falsehood, and mature into untrustworthy habits” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 150).

“Parents should be models of truthfulness, for this is the daily lesson to be impressed upon the heart of the child. Undeviating principle should govern parents in all the affairs of life, especially in the education and training of their children … Never tell an untruth in precept or in example. If you want your child to be truthful, be truthful yourself” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 151).

We should pray that our children will be known as ones who always tell the truth. This reputation will be more precious than silver or gold, as they reflect God’s 
lovely character.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect

+ In what ways do I need to be more truthful in my interactions and in my example?
+ How can I gently correct my little one so that they won’t be afraid to tell the truth?
This week, for a deeper dive into the benefit of being honest, read chapters 28 and 29 of _Child Guidance_.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-04-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Thank God that He is truth and that He will help us to be truthful examples\
of His character to our children. Ask for wisdom to know how and when to\
guide your children in honest ways.