---
title: "Seven Prayer Requests: Hunger to Know God"
date: 23/06/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> Increasing in the knowledge of God. Colossians 1:10

### Observation

“Knowledge” is _epignsis_ (πιγνωσις). The word is an advance upon _gnsis_ (γνωσις) (knowledge) in that it denotes a larger and more thorough knowledge. It is a knowledge which grasps and penetrates into an object. Paul prays that all the saints might become possessors of this knowledge, indicating that it was open for all to appropriate, not a secret mystery into which only a favored few could be initiated. Paul prays that they not only might have it but that they might be filled with it. His petition is that the Colossian saints might be filled with a thorough knowledge of God’s will.

### Application

The intent of this prayer is not that we should have a lot of knowledge about facts and information, as if in order to win a trivia contest of sorts. The intent is that we may be not just acquainted with a certain number or all of the Biblical doctrines. The intent, rather is that we may be filled with the knowledge of God Himself. To know Him intimately, not just as a theory or principle.

Some people study and investigate a subject they are passionate about. Archaeologists spend hours, days, months, and even years excavating ruins in a place so they can uncover its past and better understand the culture that lived there. Researchers devote themselves to finding the cause and the cure for a disease. Athletes devote their lives to perfecting their skills in order to win championships, to establish records, to make history.

What Paul says we should pray for is that our loved ones have that type of desire, and commitment, and passion for a personal relationship with God.

God wants to have an intimate relationship with each of His children. When each member of the family hungers to know God intimately, their potential for success in life finds daily partnership with the Heavenly Father. How wonderful it is to know each member of the family is growing in intimacy with Christ every day.

Stop right now and pray that each member of your family may have that hunger, that passion to know God, nit simply information about Him.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, awaken in my family the hunger to know You so that they will come to know You and to experience You personally in their lives.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._