---
title: Experiences
---

### Reconciliation within entire communities

**Experience of another church in Guadeloupe / Caribbean** – “The second experience we have experienced with another community from our district. My predecessor said, ‘You need a lot of courage for this church because you are going to a real minefield!’ We quickly realized that the tensions were very high. There were quarrels, divisions, injuries and unforgiveness. Uncontrolled emotional outbursts and personal attacks covered the entire community with a dark cloud. It was sad to see how entangled the church members were in a web of non-forgiveness and did not realize they could not make it out on their own. After house groups were founded, the brochure Steps to Personal Revival was distributed for study in these groups. The members gave a positive echo and were very grateful for this brochure, which came for them. Here, too, the members began to perform the 10 prayer and fast days individually. Finally, the desire arose to do it together as a church. The meetings took place again at four o’clock in the morning. At first, there were not many people, but gradually there were more and there was a wonderful, peaceful, spiritual atmosphere. One sensed that God was working. He miraculously prepared the church for the final step that was so hard for her: the step to true forgiveness. Eventually, the wall fell and one person after another publicly begged forgiveness. Others were directly addressing the person with whom they were arguing and asking for forgiveness. They hugged each other. Tears flowed. The sad faces became happy again and love returned to their hearts. It is always a wonderful experience to see and experience. Only God can guide people through his Holy Spirit. There is also hope for minefields.” (B. & F. H. #84b Guadeloupe)

**A church member from Southern Germany wrote** – My friend and I are currently studying 40-Days Prayers and Devotions to Prepare for the Second Coming for the third time, alternating with the book Steps to Personal Revival. Before we discovered this material, our faith experience and prayer life weren’t what they had once been. We longed to find our “first love” again. We have found it! We thank God with our whole hearts. It is so wonderful how our loving God answers prayers and reveals how His Spirit is working – on us and on the people we are praying for. M. S.