---
title: The Most Effective Witness
date: 06/23/2025
---

_Joyce W. Hopp_

> <p></p>
> But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you; and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. Acts 1:8, NIV.

Christ has promised the gift of the Holy Spirit to His church, and the promise belongs to us as much as to the first disciples" (Ellen G. White, in Review and Herald, Nov. 19, 1908).

Witnessing by living healthfully poses a special challenge. If we appear to be bragging about our accomplishments, we can turn people off. Instead of wanting to emulate our example, they wish we would shut up.

On the other hand, if we fail to practice what we preach, or to live up to the information we have on healthful living, we are poor witnesses to the power of the gospel to transform our daily lives.

We don't have to be marathon runners, cross-country bikers, or skiers to witness to the powerful effect of living healthfully. Our neighbors will observe the regular walks we take. Friends will notice the low-fat food we consistently choose. And family members will know when we get enough hours of sleep. But how will this make a difference in another person's life?

Jean organized a walking group, "The Happy Wanderers." Every morning they invited neighbors to join. "We talked about everything," she said.

When they first started walking, Lucille could scarcely hold up her end of the conversation because she was so out of breath. Gradually she improved to where she could both talk and walk. She began to ask questions such as Why had God allowed her to have emphysema? Where was God when her daughter died in an accident? Several members of the group provided answers they had found through their study of the Scriptures. No polished presentation, not even a Bible, but Lucille's spiritual steps began to match her physical ones.

"Not by eloquence or logic are men's hearts reached, but by the sweet influences of the Holy Spirit, which operate quietly yet surely in transforming and developing character. It is the still small voice of the Spirit of God that has power to change the heart" (Prophets and Kings, p. 169).

We don't use the Holy Spirit—we allow Him to use us.

> <callout></callout>
> Lord, I dedicate my daily healthful way of life to You, for the Holy Spirit to use it as a witness to others.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._