---
title: From Heaven to Earth
---

“Then I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth—to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people—saying with a loud voice, ‘Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come; and worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water’ ” (Revelation 14:6, 7).

Notice the heaven-to-earth dynamic here: the first angel’s message, though being physically delivered by humans, comes from heaven. It’s of divine, not human, origin. It is revealed truth, truth that is told to us, truth divulged to us, truth given to us by God through His human messengers. These messengers, such as Moses, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Matthew, John, Paul, and Peter, had writings in the Bible; or they didn’t, such as Nathan the prophet (2 Samuel 7:1, 2) or John the Baptist, of whom Jesus said that “among those born of women there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist” (Luke 7:28). Either way, they were speaking for God.

Meanwhile, Scripture itself is “given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness” (2 Timothy 3:16). The Greek word for “inspiration of God” is theopneustos, which means “God-breathed.” It has been revealed by God Himself, “who cannot lie” (Titus 1:2). Humans lie, but not God, and so we must listen to what He has said to us in this angel’s message.

Because this message comes from heaven, that is, from high above the earth, it is proclaimed to “those who dwell on the earth.” The prophet Isaiah talks about high mountains (Isaiah 40:9; 52:7) as the place from which the gospel is preached to those below. Before sending His disciples to preach, Jesus said that what He had told them in secret would be proclaimed from rooftops (Matthew 10:27), high places from which their voices would be heard by the masses in the streets beneath.

The angel also speaks in a “loud voice,” giving the idea of being easily heard. In biblical times, long before anything even like a telegraph wire transmitting Morse Code—much less FaceTime—ever entered anyone’s imagination, messengers were trained from youth to have strong voices. These trained men, standing from posts on strategic mountains, would loudly shout to those on another mountain, and so forth, until the message reached the intended destination.

In short, this first angel’s message will be proclaimed worldwide; no one will be able to claim ignorance. (This book you’re reading right now is part of that prophetic truth being fulfilled.) The universality of this message is also found in whom it is being directed to: “to those who dwell on the earth—to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people.” The phrase “who dwell on the earth” is also used in Revelation to depict people who have chosen not to follow and obey God (see Revelation 13:8, 14). However, because the first angel’s message is a call to faithfulness, this phrase in this context must be referring to a time when people still have the opportunity to choose whom they will worship and obey (see “A Bit of Context, Please [Part Two]”). In fact, what follows right after, “every nation, tribe, tongue, and people,” shows the universality of the message. It is for every human being.

Which makes sense. Humanity has been created, out the gate, to live forever; in order to ensure us of that eternal life (if we would accept it), God put in place “the everlasting gospel” long before anyone of us took our first, or last, breath. “For to this end we both labor and suffer reproach, because we trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe” (1 Timothy 4:10). Thousands of years ago the Lord told Abram (later Abraham) that in him “all the families of the earth will be blessed” (Genesis 12:3). The destroying fires of hell were originally prepared only for the devil and his angels, not for humans and their offspring (Matthew 25:41).

The plan of salvation is, ultimately, a restoration: re-creating what has been ruined by sin and death. It’s no wonder, then, that the first angel’s message, proclaiming “the everlasting gospel,” is for all humanity. Christ died for all people, with no one left out. The tragedy of the lost is that no one should be lost, not when such a steep price, the crucifixion of the Creator, has been paid for them to be saved.

Finally, in a world racked by ethnic, racial, and gender conflicts (when has it not, actually?), the universality of the gospel message should say something about the essential equality of humanity: we’re all wretches, all in need of God’s grace (go back to the idea, in “The Sin Problem,” of you standing before a holy God who knows your deepest, ugliest secrets). Death cares nothing about race, gender, social standing, or wealth. It’s an equal-opportunity destroyer. “Every nation, tribe, tongue, and people” are ultimately, and equally, impotent before it, because, sooner or later, death pulls “every nation, tribe, tongue and people” back into the dust and dirt from which they all arose. And that is why the first angel’s message is directed to all of them, to all of us.