---
title: Repentance and Forgiveness
subtitle: Week 9
---

As he thought about the distance between himself and his wife, he knew he’d been wrong. He’d been unkind and harsh and had said some things he regretted. Yet his next thought was _Didn’t she deserve it, even a little bit? After all, she did/said this… . Surely I’m justified with my words and actions!_

It’s not always easy to say “I’m sorry . . .” when we’ve done wrong, yet this is so essential to rebuild or strengthen any relationship, including our relationship with God and with our children.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ In your close relationships, when you experience conflict and you’re in the wrong, do you tend to be the first or last to apologize?
+ Do you find it difficult to ask for forgiveness (from your children or spouse) when you have not kept a promise or if you have treated them harshly?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

**Read** Acts 3:18-19 and 2 Peter 3:9.

+ Why is repentance so important in the process of spiritual growth?
+ Why do you think it is important for children to see that we, as parents, also need forgiveness?

The kindness and goodness of God actually leads us to repentance (Romans 2:4). Real repentance involves these steps:

1. Sincere sorrow for the sin we have committed.

2. The honest decision to step away from that sin.

3. Genuine repentance and restitution (where this is possible), followed by God’s forgiveness. It’s that simple (1 John 1:9; Revelation 3:19).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

+ What role does the Holy Spirit play in repentance? (See Luke 11:13; John 16:7, 8.)
+ As your baby grows, how might you guide them to be open to the Holy Spirit’s influence in their life?
+ What most stands out to you from the following quote:

> “We often sorrow because our evil deeds bring unpleasant consequences to ourselves; but this is not repentance. Real sorrow for sin is the result of the working of the Holy Spirit. The Spirit reveals the ingratitude of the heart that has slighted and grieved the Savior and brings us in contrition to the foot of the cross. By every sin Jesus is wounded afresh … we mourn for the sins that have brought anguish upon Him. Such mourning will lead to the renunciation of sin” (Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, p. 300).

Something happens when we come close to Jesus in repentance. He places His perfect robe of righteousness around us and covers our sins—forgiving us completely. Jesus’ character is perfect, spotless, and He offers His robe to us (Revelation 19:8; Ephesians 5:27).

We all need to show genuine repentance for sin. We all need God’s forgiveness, which we don’t deserve. Forgiveness is a gift of God and can never be earned by what we do or what we bring to God. This is the nature of grace. We can’t save ourselves. In the end, Jesus, and His gift of grace, is all we need. His forgiveness is given to us when we accept Jesus’ sacrifice on our behalf and is the single greatest gift of all time. It’s the costliest gift God could give, paid for with the blood of God’s Son.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect

+ What is insightful or challenging about these thoughts?
+ Where have you experienced grace and forgiveness in your life? How has that impacted you?
+ How can you daily clothe yourself with Jesus’ robe of righteousness?
+ How might you teach your child to have a healthy, true picture of God’s grace?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Pause to think of what Jesus did for you. Thank Him for His free gift of\
grace—His perfect robe of righteousness.