---
title: A Friendly Relationship
date: 06/14/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> No longer do I call you servants, for a servant does not know what his master is doing; but I have called you friends, for all things that I heard from My Father I have made known to you. John 15:15

### Observation

Servants. Gr. douloi, singular doulos, often designating “slave,” here, perhaps, a servant with restricted status (see on ch. 8:34). A servant of this rank would be expected to obey blindly without being taken into the master’s counsels. Jesus had taken the disciples into His confidence and had revealed many things to them. The Holy Spirit would further enlighten them (ch. 14:26). Jesus was soon to leave them, and they were to labor on without His bodily presence. A weighty responsibility would be theirs. He wanted them to think of their relationship with Him as that of friends. Before, He had implied that they were servants (see ch. 13:16); now they were His friends. (The Seventh©day Adventist Bible Commentary, Volume 5. 1980 (F. D. Nichol, Ed.). Review and Herald Publishing Association.)

### Application

Jesus left us an example of what servant leadership is all about. While He is Lord, and we are His servants, His desires a relationship with as of friends, equals, everyone serving everyone else joyfully.

Those who wish to assert their authority at home, expecting everyone in the family to serve them, while using certain Bible texts to prove that as the head of the household they should expect everyone else to submit to them, is neither a leader nor an example of Christ.

It is also interesting to note that Jesus provides with an example of what a good ,healthy relationship should be – He calls it “friendship.” In marriage, if we are our spouses best friend, as they are to us, we will be able to maintain a positive, healthy relationship. Someone said that we should marry our best friend. While that is the ideal, one can also make of their spouse their best friend.

A third lesson taken from this verse is the type of communication that must exist among friends – particularly if that friend is your spouse. Jesus told them, “All things that I heard from my Father I have made known to you. In a marriage, this relates to several things:

1. Sharing God’s good news with our spouse: Whenever we learn something new from God’s Word, share them with your spouse, with your children. Do not keep those good jewels to yourself.

2. Keeping no secrets: There should be no secrets between you and your spouse. A good, healthy relationship is built on trust, and trust is build on open, honest communication.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, thank You that Jesus is not only our Lord and Savior, He also calls us to be His friends because He is our best Friend, a Friend that sticks closer than a brother. Bless our marriage, bless our home, that Jesus’ type of friendship reign in our relationships.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._