---
title: Little Is Much
date: 03/05/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “‘Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in My house, and try Me now in this,’ says the Lord of hosts, ‘if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you such blessing that there will not be room enough to receive it.’” –Malachi 3:10

Liywalii (Lee-ywa-lee) understood this verse very much. He had $10 remaining until the end of the month, which was still some fifteen days away. He was pastoring a multi-church district some 150 km west of Lusaka, the capital city of Zambia. One Sunday morning, as he was basking in the sun before it became hot, he saw his best friend’s mother coming to his house. He stood up to welcome her. She said her errand was to ask for money to pay the hammer mill. Liywalii didn’t know what to say. He had only $10 left, with half a month yet to go. If he gave it now, he would be left with nothing. Trusting that God would see him through, he went into the house and returned with the $10, which he gladly handed her.

She left happily, while the pastor remained thinking about how God would come through for him. Hardly ten minutes after giving away the $10, somebody knocked on his door. Liywalii went to open the door and found there the head of the institution, whose house he was iving in, standing there. He invited him into the house. After the visit as he was leaving, he pulled out a $10 bill and gave it to the pastor. He prayed and left.

Pastor Liywalii was shocked. He gave away $10 and God gave him back $10! He thanked God for His care.

### Appeal

As we continue supporting God’s work and helping each other, let us never forget that after we have given that which may be our last, God will take care of us. Therefore, let us always give with joy.