---
title: Fear God
---

Why wouldn’t the first words of an angel proclaiming the everlasting gospel be “Fear God”? Think, again, about what the everlasting gospel is. The God who created and sustains the universe, the estimated 50 billion-light-year-wide observable universe (who knows how far beyond even that it goes?), and whose power is so vast that our imaginations can’t grasp His creation (how do you imagine something 50 billion light-years wide?)—this God so humbled Himself, so lowered Himself, that He purposely, of His own choice and out of love for us, allowed Himself to become one of us. “Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus, who, being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made Himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant, and coming in the likeness of men. And being found in appearance as a man, He humbled Himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross” (Philippians 2:5-8).

It would have been an infinite condescension just to have stepped down from the glories of heaven to come to this fallen, disease- and war- and crime-ridden planet as a human being. After all, what is the earth in contrast to the vastness of the universe, with its estimated 2 trillion galaxies, each with billions of stars (and only God knows how many exoplanets<sup>1</sup> around those stars)? In the geography of the cosmos, our whole solar system, sun included, would seem of no more consequence or importance than a grain of sand digested in the belly of a crab. That’s our solar system. What about our planet, earth, or each of us, which in contrast even to the earth are but fleeting spasms of cellular metabolism that will eventually all but evaporate into nothing but scanty chemical remains?

And yet so great was His love for us that not only did He come to live among us but He—the Creator of the 50 billion-light-year-wide observable universe (who knows how far beyond even that it goes?)— allowed Himself to be mocked, jeered, humiliated, tortured, and then crucified for us so that we can all have the promise of eternal life.

No wonder we should fear Him, not as in being scared but as in being awed and utterly reverent and utterly astonished that He would care so much for us, even at such a cost to Himself. He is so powerful; we are so weak, we are so filthy, we are so sinful before Him that He could have justifiably wiped us out. But instead He humbled Himself and, reaching across the cold, dead inhospitable void of space, became one of us. And by His willful self-sacrifice, Jesus linked us to Himself with ties that will never be broken.

Fear God? Fear that in the face of such love, such undeserved love and such unrelenting grace, that we should sin against Him. Fear that we should have to stand before Him without His robe of righteousness. Fear that we should allow ourselves to forget His great love to us and reject His offer of salvation. That’s a frightening thought: that despite the cross, that despite the astonishing self-abnegation of God Himself, that despite the infinite price paid for our souls, we should ignore or forget or reject what has already been done for us. Again, “before time began” (2 Timothy 1:9; Titus 1:2) each of us had been chosen in Him to have the eternal life that was supposed to have been ours from the start. And to secure this life for us, even before we existed, Christ covenanted with the Father and the Holy Spirit to sacrifice Himself for us as the only means of any of us having eternal life.

And yet, as too many will do—to reject the offer? To walk away from such infinite price paid for us? To count it as a small thing or to brush it aside for the fleeting pleasures of this world, which never gives true happiness and is passing away anyway?

That is a frightening thought!

Human analogies fail, but imagine someone drinks himself silly over long years until his liver is completely shot. A loved one, seeing what is happening, offers their own liver, at the cost of their life. The liver is removed, but the sick person then chooses not to take it, even after the person died so that they could have it. That, roughly, is what it means to reject, in the face of Calvary, what Christ has done for us. In the past, people have looked up into the night sky filled with stars and felt a sense of awe, of fear, at the vastness, the grandeur, the beauty of what was up there above them while they were so small, so little, so seemingly insignificant below all this. And today telescopes that reveal a cosmos so vast that we throw out such numbers as 20 billion light-years<sup>2</sup> for these distances give us the illusion that we can grasp them when we can only shudder, in awe, in fear, at the infinitely starry magnificence that surrounds us. But if humans can be in awe of the creation itself, how much more so should we before the God who created it and who sustains it? That thought alone should be more than enough to get us to tremble before Him. But then, added to this, to realize our own unworthiness before Him and yet to know that despite this unworthiness—no, indeed, because of it—Christ sacrificed Himself for us?

Before such big ideas, before such cosmic love focused directly on us, how can we not cry out, Who is sufficient for these things? And also, how could we not ask: How are we supposed to respond? What response is worthy of what’s been given us? And how could anything that we do be of consequence in contrast to what’s been done for us in Jesus? The answer—and the first thing we’re told to do, after to fear God—is to “give glory to Him” (Revelation 14:7).

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Exoplanets are planets that orbit other stars.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> That is, traveling at the speed of light, 186,000 miles per second (seven times around the earth in one second), a person would take 20 billion years to reach that far away.