---
title: How to Study the Bible
subtitle: Week 5
---

One of the most important ways to grow a vibrant relationship with God is to have regular, unrushed time in God’s Word, the Bible. Having unrushed time is especially challenging for every parent who has little children. It requires deliberate planning and determination.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ How many Bibles do you have? Share about when and how you got your first Bible.
+ What challenges make it hard for you to study the Bible?
+ What would make it easier?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

In Isaiah 55 we read about the message of God’s Word being sweet to our souls. Read this chapter together slowly and discuss:

+ What does the Lord give to those who come to Him, to “eat” from His Word?
+ What is His invitation to you here?
+ What is His challenge?
+ What is His promise?

The words of Isaiah 55 were given by God to His rebellious people back then—which make them even more amazing in their context. The same principles of God’s Word speak into our twenty-first-century lives in meaningful ways today.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

Silently read these quotes. Highlight words and phrases as you read, then focus on: something familiar, something challenging, something encouraging, or something to explore further.

> “And this is eternal life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom You have sent” (John 17:3).

> “There is but little benefit derived from a hasty reading of the Scriptures. One may read the whole Bible through and yet fail to see its beauty or comprehend its deep and hidden meaning” (Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, p. 90).

> “As we take up the study of God’s word, we should do so with humble hearts. All selfishness, all love of originality, should be laid aside. Long-cherished opinions must not be regarded as infallible” (Ellen G. White, Counsels to Writers and Editors, pp. 36, 37).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

You don’t have to be a theologian or a scholar to study the Bible. God desires to communicate with every single person through His living Word. So how can you study the Bible simply yet deeply? Try these ideas:

+ **Ask God to place a desire in your heart for Him.** Claim, or memorize, the promises in Jeremiah 29:13 and Psalm 73:25. Ask Him to help you make time in your day for Him.
+ **If you spend time with God only when you feel like it, you may not spend much time with Him.** Choose to spend time with God. Find an accountability partner (spouse, friend) with whom you can share your thoughts.
+ **Pray.** It’s impossible to overstate the importance of prayer as bookends to (and bookmarks throughout) your Bible study time.
+ **Read and write.** Choose a short book of the Bible to begin with. Read it slowly and write down your thoughts and learnings. This will help you process what you read.
+ **Share.** Tell someone what you’ve learned. This will make what you’ve read even more meaningful, while encouraging someone else.

_(Refer back to the Quarter 1, Handout 7, “Read”, for more tips about studying the Bible and see “References and Resources” at the back of your Baby Steps Parent Book for ideas of where to start.)_

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Ask God for a longing for a deeper walk with Him. Continue to personally\
pray for this each day in the week ahead. Pray, too, for your baby and\
their future relationship with God and His Word.