---
title: Uncle, This Cannot Buy Anything
date: 01/03/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “’And when you offer the blind as a sacrifice, is it not evil? And when you offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? Offer it then to your governor! Would he be pleased with you? Would he accept you favorably?’ says the Lord of hosts.” –Malachi 1:8

A young girl lived happily with her parents in a city with over two million people. This girl, Kezia, enjoyed buying little things children her age like so much.

One day, a visitor from overseas visited her family. Everyone was very happy because they had not seen him for a long time. Kezia and her family spent every available moment with him, chatting and sharing old memories. It was a good time indeed.

Three days after he arrived, the visitor decided to explore the city to see the changes that had taken place since he left. When he came back, he brought some goodies for Kezia, which she gratefully received. To her surprise, she was given a monetary bill along with the goodies. Without looking at it carefully, she ran to her bedroom to feast on the delicacies she was given.

After she had finished eating, it was time for her to take the bill to the nearest shop to spend it. She looked at it carefully, and her joy turned into sadness. Kezia came screaming from her bedroom to the living room, where her father and the visitor were enjoying their stories. She interrupted them as she came to where the visitor was and said, “Uncle, this cannot buy anything!” Kezia’s father tried to calm and interrupt her because he was embarrassed by what she was saying.

The visitor asked Kezia’s father if it was true that the bill Kezia was holding could not buy anything valuable. He answered, “Yes, it cannot buy anything. You need two of those bills to buy something.”

Dear friends, what about us today? Do we give God the money that cannot buy anything? If Kezia did not want the bill that could not buy anything, what about God? If the smallest amount you give is your best, God accepts it. But if that is not all you have, don’t give God what you can’t use yourself. God gave us the best gift in the person of Jesus. Let us give Him also the best.

### Appeal

As we give our offerings today and in the future, let us remember to give God the best we have.