---
title: Breakfast With the King
date: 03/05/2025
---

_Kay Kuzma_

> <p></p>
> In the morning, O Lord, you hear my voice; in the morning I lay my requests before you and wait in expectation. Ps. 5:3, NIV.

I'm not a morning person. I wake up, doze, and put off getting out of my bed as long as possible. At times I've even mused that if God really wanted me to enjoy the morning hours, He would have created them later in the day! But I've learned that just because it's hard for me to get going in the morning is still no excuse to skip breakfast.

The Iowa Breakfast Study (from 1949 to 1961) found that those who ate breakfast could perform physical and mental tasks in the late morning more efficiently, with faster reaction times and less neuromuscular tremor, than those who skipped the morning meal. Students who ate breakfast had better attitudes and higher academic attainment. Children are far less able to tolerate long periods without food because of their higher metabolic rates. They quickly get tired, apathetic, and irritable.

It's a common saying that we should eat breakfast like a king, lunch like a queen, and supper like a pauper. How you treat your body the night before will determine whether you'll feel ready for a kingly breakfast. If you eat a big evening meal and hit the sack before your food has a chance to digest, your body has to work to digest that food instead of getting the eight hours of total rest it needs. That's why you wake up groggy and don't feel like eating and why some people advocate nothing but fruit for breakfast, because it's easier on a digestive system that has worked part of the night.

The fact is that the food you put into your body in the morning will affect your day—whether it's physical food or spiritual food. That's why you should not only eat breakfast like a king, but also have breakfast with the King.

Before you roll out of bed, spend a few minutes praising your King. Then get on your walking shoes and walk and talk with Him. Come back invigorated and ready to eat the "morning manna" of His Word.

When you start your day with breakfast with the King, I'll guarantee you'll feel more like eating breakfast like a king.

> <callout></callout>
> Try eating supper like a pauper, and see if it doesn't make you feel more like having a spiritual breakfast with your King and a physical breakfast like a king.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._