---
title: Give Generously
date: 08/15/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> Do not withhold good from those who deserve it when it’s in your power to help them. Proverbs 3:27 (NLT)

### Observation

The wise man turns suddenly to practical matters and begins each of the next five verses with a statement of prohibition. There is a timeliness about deeds of kindness that multiplies their value. To withhold good that is within one’s power to perform is to rob God as well as man. The Son of man upon the throne of judgment regards those who neglect the least of His brethren as neglecting the Master Himself (Matt. 25:45).

If we delay the payment of a lawful debt when we are well able to settle the account, we are defrauding our creditor of the use of his own money, and we may seriously inconvenience him. In the same way the withholding of assistance from one in need aggravates unnecessarily his trouble. We may find, when eventually setting about to offer the help so much required, that it is too late. The evil may already have overtaken the unfortunate one, or some less dilatory benefactor may have gained the blessing we were too slow to secure. [The Seventh©day Adventist Bible Commentary, Volume 3. 1977 (F. D. Nichol, Ed.). Review and Herald Publishing Association.]

### Application

The Christian life should be characterized by generosity in light of the fact that God has been so generous with us with His grace, His love, His forgiveness, and His salvation. In Old Testament times, God made provision for the widows, orphans, and the poor by telling those who owned land to leave some of what was being harvested behind for those who needed it. This was an act which benefitted the poor, because they didn’t have anything, as well as the wealthy because it should inculcate in the spirit of generosity.

Many give to special projects, charitable organizations, or people in their time of need. Recently I heard of a young man with cerebral palsy who has received donations to help him with a surgery which would help him greatly by providing more mobility. However, that young man heard of a young child, also with cerebral palsy, and also in need of surgery, so he gave all that had been donated for his own surgery so the young child could have it instead. What an act of generosity on his part!

The widow who gave everything she had, and was given special mention by Jesus, is another example of giving sacrificially. She didn’t just give some leftovers, or a small portion while keeping a good portion, or any portion for herself. Instead, she gave everything she had.

How generous are we with those closest to us? I’m not referring only to financial generosity, however. How generous are we with our appreciation for them? How generous are we in expressing praise and affirmation for what they do? How often do we shower them with words that lift them up, encourage them, bring joy to them? We may think great, warm thoughts about them, but do not tell them. Our text today reminds us to not keep inside those words, when we have them, when it is in our poser to give them to our loved ones, to those closest to us, or to those with whom we work, to our neighbors, to those who go to school with us. Shower them with words that will help them, encourage them, and strengthen them. The right word, at the right time, my just be what they need in their time of need.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, help us to be generous in our praise of others that we may alleviate their burdens and encourage them when they’re down.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._