---
title:  PRAYER THAT IS PLEASING TO GOD
date:   05/03/2017
---

### PRAYER THAT IS PLEASING TO GOD

(John 15:7)

Many prayers “wear” what may seem like “spiritual clothes.” In other words, they may seem holy and religious. But they are not. Instead, sometimes our reasons for praying are selfish. 

`Read John 15:7. In this verse, why is living in Jesus and His words living in us important for our prayers? What different purpose will our prayers have if we do not live in Jesus?`

First, we must search for Jesus and find Him. Then we must enjoy spending time with Him. Finding God and spending time with Him are more important gifts than anything else He might give to us. If God comes first in our lives, we will want to do what He wants. His thoughts will shape our desires. For this reason, God must be at the center of prayer. Then we will begin to pray in the way He wants us to pray. We will start to see our whole lives through His eyes. 

God is deeply interested in us. He wishes to be included in all parts of our lives. He wants us to share everything with Him. He wants us to tell Him about our worries, our fears, our wishes, our hopes, our desires, our successes, our joys, and our failures. And we can talk about these things with Him. God is a good Friend. And He will help us to see everything about ourselves through His eyes. 

Prayer, however, does not change God. Prayer changes us. Prayer brings us to God, who changes our lives.

“Prayer opens the heart to God. He is our Friend. We do not need to make known to God what we are. That is not the purpose of prayer. Instead, prayer helps us to receive God into our hearts. Prayer does not bring God down to us. Instead, prayer lifts us up to Him.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 93. 

What a powerful quote! It captures the truth of what prayer does to us and for us. Prayer makes us open containers for God’s riches. He pours out His grace (forgiveness; mercy), His power, and Himself on our lives. Who has not, at some point, experienced how prayer can draw us closer to God?

`Think about your prayer life. What do you pray for? When do you pray? Why do you pray? What do your answers tell you about your own spiritual condition (state)? What do they say about your own relationship to God? What changes might you need to make?`