---
title: Courageous Women In Times Of Crisis
---

> <p></p>
> “For if you remain silent at this time, relief and deliverance for the Jews will arise from another place, but you and your father’s family will perish. And who knows but that you have come to your royal position for such a time as this?” (Esther 4:14).

In today’s passage the role of a woman is portrayed in a big way during a time of crisis. Israel was about to be destroyed because of the envy of Haman. Apparently there was no solution, but God raised up a sensitive and wise woman named Esther who presented herself before the king and interceded for her people. Queen Esther is an example of Jesus, who also intercedes for God’s children.

In the book of Judges we find the examples of other women, who in times of crisis revealed themselves to be stronger than men. Deborah is the first of them. She was a judge in Israel, and apart from being a dedicated wife and mother, she received sons who also judged God’s people.

During this time, Jabin, King of Canaan, sent Sisera, to fight against the chosen people. Then the figure of Deborah appears majestic in Israel’s history. She called Barak, the commander of God’s army and sent him to battle, but Barak feared and said to the judge: “If you go with me, I will go; but if you don’t go with me, I won’t go.” Then Deborah said: “Certainly I will go with you, but because of the course you are taking, the honor will not be yours, for the LORD will deliver Sisera into the hands of a woman.”

The battle was victorious to Israel but Barak was not the great winner. Actually, Sisera, the enemy’s commander, fled, but he fell on the hands of a woman named Jael. In a critical moment Jael made a wise decision to protect the people of Israel.

During Christ’s final moments another woman appears, a woman who faced a crisis without fear. Mary, that poor sinner who found for giveness and grace in Jesus, was the last person to leave Calvary and the first to go to the tomb.

Where did these women find courage and wisdom to face moments of crisis? Let us ask Mary Magdalene and she would say that she was far from Jesus and her life was full of failures and frustrations. But one day she found the secret to victory at the feet of Jesus. There you can see her, sitting at Jesus’ feet while her sister, Martha, is rushing around. You can see her again, anointing the Master’s feet with her tears, while others are enjoying a feast. Once more you can see her at the foot

of the cross while others flee. It is from Jesus, from the cross, that Mary, Deborah, Esther and other women found strength to face crisis moments. And it is there that women and men today may find the necessary power to face the stormy times that will come.

_—Alejandro Bullon, More Like Jesus, p. 218_