---
title: God Is Not Finished Yet!
date: 21/04/2025
---

_Pamela Consuegra, PhD_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> "God is the one who began this good work in you, and I am certain that he won't stop before it is complete on the day that Christ Jesus returns." Philippians 1:6 (CEV)

### Observation

**a good work**—Any work that God begins, He will surely finish (1Sa 3:12). Not even men begin a work at random. Much more the fact of His beginning the work is a pledge of its completion (Is 26:12). So as to the particular work here meant, the _perfecting of their fellowship in the Gospel_ (Php 1:5; Ps 37:24; 89:33; 138:8; Jn 10:28, 29; Jn 10:28, 29, Ro 8:29, 35–39 Heb 6:17–19; Jam 1:17; Jud 1:24). As God cast not off Israel for ever, though chastening them for a time, so He will not cast off the spiritual Israel (De 33:3; Is 27:3; 1Pe 1:5). [Jamieson, R., Fausset, A. R., & Brown, D. (1997). _Commentary Critical and Explanatory on the Whole Bible_ (Php 1:6). Oak Harbor, WA: Logos Research Systems, Inc.]

### Application

Growth takes time and yet, as parents we often expect perfection in our children overnight. It is far too easy to forget that He is not finished yet. As adults we struggle with certain behaviors and continue to grow and mature spiritually throughout our lifetime. Remember, the text for today tells me that the work God is doing in my life will not be complete until the day that Jesus returns to take me home with Him. Why is it that we want our children to overcome their challenges and we want the change to happen NOW?

Don't be impatient with your child. Focus on the positives. Look for areas where you see growth and take the time to affirm that in your child. If your child only hears about their faults they will become discouraged, develop poor self- esteem, and not be motivated to attempt new things for fear of failure. It is through failures that we all learn. It is only in falling that we learn how to get up.

I'm thankful that I serve a God who never gives up on me. And, we should never give up on our children! The scripture verse also reminds me that "He won't stop." Christ keeps working on my heart and my attitudes day after day. He loves me and continually forgives me and allows me to start anew. Now, that's great news for us and for our children!

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Dear Lord, please help me to exercise patience with my child. I trust You to finish the work that You have started in them, and in me. In the name of Jesus. Amen.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._