---
title: Why Has Jesus Not Come?
date: 15/03/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “The Lord is not slack concerning His promise, as some count slackness, but is longsuffering toward us, not willing that any should perish but that all should come to repentance.” –2 Peter 3:9

One day at church the preacher preached about the second coming of Jesus. One of the people who were in the church that Sabbath was a little girl we will call Vicky. She was very happy to hear that Jesus is coming very soon to end the suffering that is in the world.

Vicky had lost her cousin whom she loved so much, and she excitedly came home, ready to tell her parents that Jesus is coming very soon and there will be no more death. The parents reaffirmed the truth that Jesus is coming very soon.

Two months after the discussion of Jesus’s return, Vicky asked her parents why Jesus had not yet come, when the preacher had said that the coming of the Lord was near. The parents sadly said, “Yes, Jesus is coming very soon, but He is waiting for people to hear about Him.” They added that there are still many people in the world who have not yet heard about Jesus. When the gospel has gone everywhere, as recorded in Matthew 24:14, Jesus would come.

Vicky asked her parents, “What can we do to help the gospel to go everywhere?” They explained that one way of helping spread the gospel is by returning tithe and offerings. She interrupted them with another question, “Are you returning tithe and offerings?”

“Yes,” they replied.

Brothers and sisters, Jesus wants to come and end the sufferings we are going through. But He is still waiting for many of His children to also hear and know Him. For these people to hear about Him, tithe and offerings are needed so that preachers, books, and programs can be sponsored to reach them. We are here as the products of other people’s faithfulness.

### Appeal

Are you not going to do your part? Is it your desire to give so that others may hear about Jesus?