---
title: The Experience of Salvation and Growing in Christ
---

All of humanity has sinned and needs salvation. The Holy Spirit convicts us of our lost condition and leads us to acknowledge our sinfulness, repent of our sins, and exercise faith in Christ as our Savior and Lord, our Substitute and Example. Romans 3:23; 10:9; John 16:7, 8; Acts 2:38; Titus 3:3-7.

When we confess our sins, God promises to forgive and cleanse us. Genuine confession is accompanied by repentance, or turning away from sin. To repent, we must first come to Christ just as we are. His love and goodness lead us to repentance, and His mercy toward us leads us to forgive others. 1 John 1:9; Acts 5:31; Romans 2:4; Matthew 6:12, 14, 15.

We receive faith by hearing and reading the Word of God. By faith we are forgiven and justified, adopted as God’s children, delivered from evil, and given assurance of eternal life. By faith we are also born again to a new life in the Spirit. The Spirit renews our minds, writes God’s law of love in our hearts, and gives us power to live a holy life. Romans 10:17; 3:21-26; Galatians 1:4; 4:4-7; 1 John 5:13; John 3:5; 1 Peter 1:23; Acts 26:18; Romans 12:2; Ephesians 5:2-5; Ezekiel 36:25-27; Hebrews 8:10.

As new creatures in Christ, we continue to grow more like Him by spending time with Him—in prayer, Bible study, and active service. By abiding in Christ, we may live victoriously over sin, fear, and the powers of darkness. 2 Corinthians 3:18; 5:17; Matthew 4:4; Ephesians 6:12-18; Matthew 20:25-28; John 15:5; Jude 24.

**My Commitment**: _Having accepted Christ as my Lord and Savior, I will aim to become like Him in character, choosing love, humility, courtesy, and kindness in my words and actions. With God’s help I will forgive others as Christ has forgiven me._

- [x] Yes, I agree.
- [ ] I have questions.

`My questions`