---
title: Are You at Risk of Acquiring an Egyptian Disease?
date: 04/08/2025
---

_Jim Cox_

> <p></p>
> I pray that you may prosper in all things and be in health, just as your soul prospers. 3 John 2, NKJV.

Seven million Americans have diabetes. The typical high-fat (40 to 47 percent), high-sugar standard American diet (SAD) contributes to adult onset diabetes. Thirty-four centuries ago God urged us to avoid fats (see Lev. 7:23-25), but most of us still ignore this important counsel and reap the results of age-old diseases such as diabetes.

Archaeologists have discovered 3,000-year-old mummies that show the evidence of diabetes and atherosclerosis, the same diseases we have today. At that time the wealthy Egyptians had Hebrew and other Asiatic slaves to do their work, while they enjoyed a rich diet and the sedentary lifestyle of a couch potato.

"If you diligently heed the voice of the Lord your God and do what is right in His sight, give ear to His commandments and keep all His statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you which I have brought on the Egyptians. For I am the Lord who heals you" (Ex. 15:26, NKJV).

By choosing a plant food diet and getting plenty of regular exercise it is possible to reduce dramatically the risk of adult onset diabetes and in many cases eliminate the need for medication. God knew the nutrition humanity needed, so at Creation He offered an abundant variety of plant foods: fruits, grains, nuts, and vegetables.

After a two-day Reversing Diabetes Seminar at Arrowhead Springs Christian Conference Center, one grateful wife said, "My husband stopped using his 85 units of insulin on the second day. Now, five months later, he has lost 50 pounds, and I have lost 34 pounds. We are praising the Lord."

God promises health rewards for those who are obedient. "So you shall serve the Lord your God, and He will bless your bread and your water. And I will take sickness away from the midst of you" (Ex. 23:25, NKJV).

And finally, for ultimate health, God sent Jesus Christ: "I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly" (John 10:10, NKJV).

> <callout></callout>
> If you haven't done so already, begin today living a healthier lifestyle. Choose to avoid the diseases of the Egyptians.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._