---
title: Five Types of Bible studies
---

When planning to give Bible studies one needs to select a type of study and have materials in hand. There are five types of Bible studies: Spontaneous, Chain Reference, “Bible Speaks”, Bible Correspondence School Study Guides, and “Good News for Today”.

### Spontaneous

Open the Bible and begin where the student is interested. Jump around using texts you think appropriate and most meaningful to the specific student at the moment.

- This type of study can be used with a seat partner on the bus or airplane but is not the best for a systematic series.

- A systematic approach is best. It gently leads the student step by step building on former studies, and it makes the entire subject clear.

With the spontaneous approach it is very difficult to stay on one subject and make it clear to the mind.

1. Students usually ask questions on subjects they are not prepared for, such as the testing truths.
2. Arguments ensue and the series often ends abruptly.

- This open-the-Bible spontaneous approach does require a thorough knowledge of the Bible.

### Chain Reference

A better approach is to follow a properly arranged series of subjects with texts marked in your Bible in an order that makes each subject clear.

- List the subjects, code letters (such as “OE” for “Origin of Evil”) and the first text for each in the back of your Bible.
- Beside the next and following texts write the code, the number, and the next text. Continue to the end of the study.
- You will need to study the series of texts carefully so you can ask questions before you or the student/s read the texts so they can find the answers.
- After the text is read, ask the question again and get the answer from the student/s before elaborating.
- It is very vital that the student/s hears and sees the answer in the Bible and can answer the questions.
- Remember to call for a decision in each lesson.

(The chain reference course entitled “Secret Bible Concordance: The Key to Successful Bible Studies” is included in Appendix A.)

### “Bible Speaks”

Here is an example of a type of course that basically follows the “chain reference” approach but gives the assistance needed to make it easy and thorough.

- The Bible page numbers, texts, and questions are on one side of the page and the answers and further comments are on the back of the same page.
- The tight logic flows from the question to the answer, and on to the next question.
- It is necessary and easy for the student, whether illiterate or literate, to answer the written question.

The course follows this simple approach:

1. The teacher first gives the page number (if needed) and text to the student, and the student finds the text.
2. The teacher asks the question.
3. The student reads the text.
4. The teacher asks the question again and the student answers.
5. The teacher then turns the page, reads the answer, further comments, and can then elaborate and illustrate.
6. After the 10-12 questions are studied, the teacher follows the instruction at the end: “Review questions; Any questions? Is it clear? MY DECISION” (which is written).

When this simple approach is followed and the questions are reviewed at the end, the illiterates can answer just as well as literates. Both understand thoroughly.

As we will discuss with the next type of study, it is of great advantage for the student to study the lesson with the Bible alone and fill in the answers before the teacher reviews the answer sheet with him/her. This course can be used that way as well. (This course is available in many languages.)

### Bible Correspondence School Study Guides

This type of Bible study is covered in the Personal Ministries Leaflet, How to Run a Church-Based Bible School.

- These guides usually have the Bible texts written out in the lesson. The student does not see the texts and answers in the Bible itself.
- The best way to utilize these study guides is to have the student/s study them alone and fill out the answers. You then review and discuss their answers with them, complimenting, clarifying, and endeavoring to get a decision at the end of each study.
- Reviewing a guide that the student has already studied and thought about increases the understanding and retention greatly.
- The questions are usually true and false and may not require as much thinking as when the answer needs to be written.

### “Good News for Today”

Here is an example of a series where the student writes the answers to the questions which are reviewed by the teacher.

The instruction in this pamphlet will be based on this example, although most of the basic principles can be applied to the other types.

**Advantages of this simple, “Good News for Today” type of Bible study**:

- It has proven very successful around the world.
- You can master it very quickly.
- You will soon be equipped with prepared study guides and will be able to teach the major Bible topics at a moment’s notice.
- The student learns better and faster.

1. First, alone, the student reads from the Bible the answer to the question given in the guide.
2. He/she thinks about it and writes the answer from the Word, according to what the Spirit reveals. You are not telling the person what to believe.
3. Then at the study session, you review what the student studied.
4. The student repeats his/her answer to you, and thus hears the message from God.
5. After that, you talk about and illustrate what he/she has already decided upon, supporting his/her understanding of truth. You are supporting what the student has already read, thought about, written, spoken, and heard.
6. Thus, your study together takes less time and the student will understand and retain the truth far better that if you introduced and talked about material that is totally unfamiliar.
7. The student is soon trained and equipped with completed study guides to study the Bible with others.
   - To experience these advantages you must have a person/s with whom you can study.