---
title: Sabbath Afternoon
---

#### Introduction

It’s good news! It’s the gospel! And it is a battle ground. We fight over the meaning. We debate the theology. We argue over its implications. But we apply it only rarely. In the midst of battles which divide the church, we brawl over law and grace. We call each other names, form our exclusive clubs and isolate ourselves in our theological palaces, comforting each other that we are right.

Yet at the same time we often struggle with lives of quiet desperation—seeking to do what is right and hoping to someday find the peace Jesus promised. The average contemporary Christian has a brain full of information, but a head full of confusion and a heart full of pain.

The gospel has been debated theologically for centuries. And we are not exempt from those debates. While it is so profound we will study it for eternity, it is simple enough for a child to understand. While the gospel can be defined or stated in many different ways, with many different theological nuances, the simplest is the best:

> <p>Definition</p>
> The gospel is the good news that Jesus has solved the sin problem—past, present, and future! He has done everything necessary to save us!

In a day when the world seems to have lost hope, the gospel is still “good news.” The gospel still brings a new reality to lives desperately seeking understanding and hope. Where sin binds human hearts and lives, the gospel still has the power to shatter the shackles that chain us.

Paul states that we are “stewards of the mysteries of God” (1 Corinthians 4:1). However, simply knowing the concept of the gospel is not enough. Even the devil knows the theory. Being stewards of this mystery of the gospel means we must go beyond the words to understanding, accepting, and integrating this incredible “good news” into our daily lives.

The term “mystery” implies there is something about the gospel that transcends human understanding or explanation. We cannot know the fullness of God’s love or the depths of His pain in saving us. We cannot comprehend the incredible wonder of heaven descending to earth—God made flesh. We can only accept it by faith. Yet, we can experience the reality of salvation. We can know eternal life the moment we believe (1 John 5:13).

How then can the gospel attain this power in our lives? How can we reach this experience? It all begins with accepting it ourselves—accepting by faith the reality of Christ dying for us and Christ loving us. So this week we will explore the gospel and how it makes a difference in our lives.

The experience of salvation is the starting point of the Christian walk. Without the assurance that God accepts us, forgives us, and saves us, everything we do will be done for the wrong reason. The security of God’s love and forgiveness is the foundation for the disciple’s daily journey.

#### Objectives For This Week

As we study this week we want to accomplish the following objectives:

- Honestly face our sinfulness and need for salvation.
- Understand that salvation is a gift of God’s grace.
- Accept and/or affirm our acceptance of salvation and rejoice in that salvation.
- Accept the new life that is ours in Christ when we accept Him as Savior.

#### Holy Habit—Prayer

Prayer is the Holy Habit or spiritual discipline we want to focus on for this week. Of course, prayer is a vital part of our daily devotional walk with God, but we want to explore this practice in order to understand it better and to become more intentional in our use of this powerful tool in our daily lives.

Prayer at its highest is the meeting of a holy God with his child who hungers for holiness. It is a cleansed child, aching for clean values before the God who fills the hungering disciple in the first place. Prayer is good souls asking for good things—and the best of all good things is Jesus himself.— Calvin Miller, Into the Depths of God, p. 111

Prayer is action. It means going to God. As sinful human beings, we have the opportunity of coming into the presence of the Holy God. Prayer means being open with God as we share ourselves with Him. It is being transparent and vulnerable with God—willing for Him to see and know us as we are. Prayer means sharing ourselves with God and allowing Him to share Himself with us.

Most of all, prayer is dialogue with God. It is a two-way communication in the intimacy of our relationship with Him. It is God who initiates this dialogue with us. As dialogue, it means we have the privilege of listening to Him as well as talking to Him. Thus active prayer has two dimensions—listening to and sharing with God.

Prayer is the opening of the heart to God as to a friend. Not that it is necessary in order to make known to God what we are, but in order to enable us to receive Him. Prayer does not bring God down to us, but brings us up to Him.— Ellen White, Steps to Christ, p. 93

Prayer is a vital part of the Steps to Discipleship process. It is a primary tool in seeking God. So we will want to use prayer in two different ways:

We will use prayer as an integral part of the daily study. We begin and end each study session with prayer. We also invite you to pray throughout your study. Ask God to help you find a deeper relationship with Him.

We want to use prayer as part of our life throughout the day. Let’s make a point of talking to God throughout the day about the details of our day.

#### Suggested Prayer

Here is a suggested prayer guide for today:

_Dear Lord, Speak to my heart today. Help me to know you. Help me to trust you for my salvation and to accept by faith the assurance of your forgiveness and of eternal life. Lead me deeper into your love. Teach me to open my heart and life to you. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

List below three personal goals for your quiet time with God for this week:

`1.`

`2.`

`3.`