---
title: Sunday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our objective today is to face our sin and sinfulness honestly and openly. At the same time, we want to face this reality in the context of God’s grace. We want to understand our problem, and we want to recognize God’s solution.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Father in Heaven, I come to you as a sinner in need of your grace. Help me to be honest with myself and you. At the same time, help me accept your offer of forgiveness and mercy. Help me to understand how great your love for me really is. Amen._

#### Memory Verse

We start this week with memory verse #3. Once again, follow the same process from last week. Write the verse and reference on a card to help you review and reflect on this passage throughout the day.

> Ephesians 2:8-9 (NIV)—“For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith—and this not from yourselves, it is the gift of God—not by works, so that no one can boast.”

> Ephesians 2:8-9 (KJV)—“For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God: Not of works, lest any man should boast.”

#### Memory Verse Review

We also need to review memory verse #2, from last Wednesday. That passage is Psalm 34:8. This ongoing review is designed to help us transfer the passage into our long term memory. It also helps us integrate this truth into our thinking and daily lives.

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now it is time to open our Bibles and explore what God wants to teach us about our sin.

`Read the story oF Zacchaeus in Luke 19:1-10. What does this story tell you about how Jesus dealt with sinners? What would it be like for you to have Jesus come to your home today?`

`Read Romans 3:23-24—How do you see yourself as you read this passage?`

`Read 1 Timothy 1:15—If Paul saw himself as “chief of sinners,” how should we see ourselves? Why did Jesus come to this world?`

`Read Ephesians 2:1-9—What does this tell you about God’s love for you as a sinner? What is the basis of the salvation God offers to us?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Loving Father, You offer salvation to us as a free gift. I confess my sin and my need to you. I accept your forgiveness and affirm that my salvation is by grace alone. Teach me to live in the context of your grace. Help me to know your love. Amen._