---
title: Monday
---

#### Today’s Objective

The purpose of our time today is to explore the reality of God’s forgiveness. This is a topic we find throughout all of Scripture. We especially want to identify the condition for experiencing that forgiveness.

#### Invitation Prayer

_God of Love and Forgiveness, Help me to understand how real your forgiveness is. I am confronted by my sin and guilt. My shame threatens to overwhelm my heart and my hope. I long to know that I am forgiven. Speak to my heart today. Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

We now want to review Ephesians 2:8-9, Memory verse #3 which we began memorizing yesterday. Use the card on which you wrote the verse. Review and reflect on this passage.

`What does it say to you today?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Once again it is time to go to God’s Word and learn what He has to teach us about forgiveness.

`Read Psalm 32:1-8—What does this passage tell you about God’s forgiveness?`

`What areas of your life do you want God to forgive?`

`Read the story of the paralyzed man Found in Mark 2:1-12. Have you ever felt desperate for healing? What were the circumstances? Which would be more important to you, physical or spiritual healing? And why?`

`How do you think this man felt when Jesus told him his sins were forgiven?`

`Read 1 John 1:9 and 1 John 2:12—What do these passages tell you about the basis of our forgiveness?`

`Read Psalm 103:12; Micah 7:19; and Hebrews 8:12—What do these passages tell you about the extent of God’s forgiveness?`

(For additional study on this subject, see Isaiah 43:25; 44:21; 55:6-7; and Micah 7:19.)

#### Commitment Prayer

_God of Forgiveness, Thank you for your love and grace. I accept your forgiveness today and commit myself to live in the wonder of your love. Help me be open to your presence in my life today. Amen._