---
title: Tuesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today’s objective is to explore the basis of salvation and to identify the condition of our salvation. We want to understand what we need to do to be saved.

#### Invitation Prayer

You may want to begin your study today with a prayer like this one:

_Dear Loving Father, You have offered to save me. It seems almost too good to be true. Help me to understand what you offer and the condition of this salvation. Help me to accept your gift and to believe your promise. Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

We are reviewing Memory verse #3, Ephesians 2:8-9, once again today.

`Take a few minutes to review this verse and reflect on its impact on your life.`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now it is time to open the Bible and study the incredible concept of salvation. Let’s enjoy the wonder of God’s grace.

`Read tHe story of Jesus meeting with Nicodemus in John 3:1-17. What does this story tell you about why Jesus came to this world? What does it tell you about salvation? And why do you think verse 16 is one of the best known verses in the entire Bible?`

`Read Galatians 4:4-5—How does this passage by Paul parallel what Jesus said to Nicodemus? What insights do these verses bring to your understanding of salvation and your relationship with God?`

`Read Romans 5:1-2 and 6-8—What do these verses tell us about our standing with God, and about His plan of salvation? When does salvation come to us?`

`Study Ephesians 2:1-10—What do these verses tell us about the basis of our salvation? What do they tell us about the extent of our salvation? What does it mean to be “God’s workmanship?”`

#### Commitment Prayer

Close your time with God today with a prayer like this one:

_Dear God of Love, I am amazed by your salvation. Help me to believe the simple truth that salvation really is a gift that I accept by faith. Help me to understand what it means to be saved by grace. I thank you for your love. I praise you for your grace. I rejoice in the salvation that is mine because I believe your promise. I pray this in the incredible name of Jesus, Amen._