---
title: Wednesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

In today’s study, we want to understand the reality of our assurance in Christ. We cannot overemphasize how important this assurance is to our daily living in Christ.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Father, I come to you today seeking to know you better. Help me to understand how great your love for me really is. Help me to understand the assurance that can be mine today. Help me to trust your promises and understand your grace. Amen._

#### Memory Verse

Today we begin learning memory verse #4. Once again we will write the verse on a card to help us remember and review it.

> 1 John 5:13 (NIV)—“I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God so that you may know that you have eternal life.”

> 1 John 5:13 (KJV)—“These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God; that ye may know that ye have eternal life . . .”

#### Memory Verse Review

We also need to review memory verse #1, Jeremiah 31:3, and memory verse #3, Ephesians 2:8-9. Use your card to review and reflect on these passages.

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now its time to explore the subject of assurance in God’s Word. We want to have a solid foundation for our discipleship walk.

`Read the story of Jesus’ temptations as found in Matthew 4:1-11. How did Jesus resist these temptations? What was the basis of His success in resisting sin?`

`Read Hebrews 2:18 and 4:14-16—What do these passages tell us about Jesus? And how do they give us confidence that He can help us?`

`Read John 5:24-29—What do these verses tell us about what happens to us when we believe in Jesus?`

`Read 1 John 5:11-13—What does this passage tell us about the reality of our salvation? How can we know that we have eternal life?`


#### Commitment Prayer

_Amazing Father and Loving Lord, I come to you today with wonder at your love. I am overwhelmed by the reality that salvation is mine. Help me to live in the reality of this amazing truth. Help me to remember that my sins are forgiven. Help me to explore and understand what it means to know this love today. I thank you for the assurance that is mine. In the wondrous name of Jesus. Amen._