---
title: Thursday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our purpose today is to explore the cleansing from sin that is ours as we believe in and walk with Jesus. Let’s revel in God’s grace and rejoice in His love.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Almighty God and Loving Father, I come to you this morning eager to understand what you have for me today. Help me understand what you offer in cleansing as part of your gift of salvation. I want to stand before you clean and transformed. Help me see your love. Help me understand your Word. Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Today we review memory verse #4, 1 John 5:13. Please take your card and review the verse. Then reflect on the impact of this promise in your life.

`What key points come to your mind as you review this verse?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Once again, it is time to open the Bible and see what God has to say to our hearts today. We want to catch a greater vision of what God gives us in salvation.

`Read the story of the leper in Matthew 8:1-4. Have you ever felt like an outcast, and why?`

`Have you ever felt “filthy” in God’s presence, and why?`

`How do you think the leper felt when Jesus touched Him? What did it mean to him to be cleansed? What can it mean for you to be clean in Jesus’ presence?`

`Read Isaiah 6:1-8—How did God cleanse Isaiah? In what ways would you like for God to do something similar for you?`

`Read 1 John 1:5-9—In what ways can this passage apply to your life?`

`Read and reflect on the reality of Jeremiah 33:8—What do these words mean to you today? How does it feel to know that God can cleanse us completely, and that He wants to do so?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Father of Love, I thank you today for the cleansing that is mine. You have forgiven me. You have saved me. And today I want to serve you with all my heart. Help me to live this day in the reality of the clean heart you have given me today. Amen._