---
title: Friday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today we explore the incredible reality that is ours in Christ. We are new creations—new creatures. We are no longer the same. We have met Jesus and we cannot be the same. He has promised us a new reality. Let’s explore it together.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Lord, Help me to catch a vision of the reality that is mine in Jesus. Help me understand how He has changed me because I have come to Him and accepted the gift of salvation. Speak to my heart today. Open my mind to understand and believe. Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Today we need to review memory verse #4, 1 John 5:13, once again. This ongoing review and reflection process helps us to grasp the reality of this passage and integrate it into our lives.

`How is the assurance of salvation changing your thinking and your feelings about yourself and your future?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

It is now time to return to the Bible. We want to catch a new and greater vision of who and what we are in Jesus.

`Read the story of Saul’s (Paul’s) conversion in acts 9:1-19. What was the essence of Paul’s conversion? How was his life changed by accepting Jesus?`

`Read John 1:12—What does John say is ours in Christ?`

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:14-17—What does it mean to you to be a “new creation” in Christ?`

`Read and reflect on John 5:24-29—What do Jesus’ words in this passage say to you about your new reality in Him?`

`Read Philippians 1:3-6—What does this passage tell you about your future? How would you like for God to work in your life as He continues to transform and change you?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Almighty God, Truly you have begun a wonderful work in my life. I thank you for the reality of forgiveness and salvation. Help me remember and affirm this truth each day. Help me accept by faith the reality that in Christ I am a new creature today. Help me live this day in the newness of life that is mine. Open my mind to your presence throughout this day. In Jesus’ name, Amen._