---
title: Understand and Use the Structure of Motivation
---

All emotions have a structure, and the structure of feeling motivated is this:

1. Awareness of something you want.
2. Believing that it is possible to get it soon.
3. Believing that the thing you want is important to you now.

This means that if you want your student Jerry to feel motivated to keep the Sabbath, you need to demonstrate: Sabbath keeping will give him something he wants. It is possible for him to get it soon. What he wants is important enough for him to act to get it immediately.

To do that we need to be aware of the blessings of Sabbath keeping and which blessings are important to him and/or convince him of the importance of the blessings.

First show evidence from God’s promises. Second, tell how God has fulfilled these promises to you personally. Third, bring another person with an experience similar to Jerry’s to testify. (This person should have attended the study at least three times to bond with Jerry before this encounter).

Reassure him that God only wants the best for him and that he will receive greater joy and peace (or other blessings that he desires) that only God can provide. Utilize texts such as Psalms 84:11 and John 10:10.

Watch for the opportunity to build on the responses and admissions of your student in the interactive discussions during the Bible studies. Turn these acknowledgements into steps which will lead to decisions. The person may often say, “That is true. That is right.” As an example, John may say, “You folks have certainly got the Bible on your side for keeping the seventh day.” This is an opportunity to reply, “I am glad you see the truth about the right day to keep. It is a wonderful blessing to know the real truth from the Bible. There are greater blessings in store for you. Let us turn to Luke 11:28. It says, ‘But he said, Yea rather, blessed are they that hear the Word of God, and keep it.’” Then say, “Notice Jesus pronounces His blessing on those who hear His Word and keep it, or obey it. So now that you see that the seventh day is Christ’s day, I’m sure you want to keep it and double the blessings. Isn’t that right?”

“Minimax” is a main motivating factor in human behavior. It means individuals will act when the risk is low and the benefits are high. Maximizing eternal benefits of right actions will always produce greater results than focusing on the negative consequences. Instead of emphasizing, “Christ invites you to deny yourself,” stress, “Christ longs to bless you.”