---
title: A Heartless Society
subtitle: Chapter 6
---

People who are intentional about communicating well with their loved ones experience great family relationships. If you think about the people you really like in your family, you would easily admit that the ones you like best are the ones who make you feel good because of the way they speak and listen to you.

A friend of ours told us a story about joining a group of runners from his neighborhood who run five miles every day. After returning from running one day, he was excited about the fact that the second half of the run took less time than the first half. Because he has been concerned about getting back in shape and being healthier, he was feeling good about his improvement in running and mentioned it to his wife when he returned home. Without thinking, she said to him: “The reason you were able to run faster the second half is because most of the trail is downhill on the way back.”

Oh my! Our friend felt like someone had punched him in the stomach. Instead of receiving the affirmation he was looking for from his wife—after all the hard work he was putting into his physical exercise—he felt invalidated by the thoughtless response he received from her.

No doubt, people have had much worse things said to them. However, it is fair to ask the question, Did she have to say that? Whether her remarks were correct or not makes no difference. What we know is that nothing positive can come from these types of observations.

If you want your family relationships to be healthy and positive, it is important to learn to communicate with grace.

When we say grace, we are talking about the spiritual concept that refers to the unmerited favor and love freely given by God to humans. Grace is something we do not deserve. In the same way God forgives our shortcomings even when we do not deserve to be forgiven, to communicate with grace means to speak with someone in a way they do not deserve.

The Old Testament says in Proverbs 25:11, “A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in settings of silver.”

This is how families can create a life of peace and happiness together, by using words as precious gifts of gold and silver they can give to each other every day, even when a loved one may not deserve it. Can you think of someone in your family with whom you need to use grace in your communication? This is an easy question for most of us to respond to because a large percentage of the world’s population have a relative they have a difficult relationship with.

In an earlier chapter, we mentioned the concept presented by Dr. Stephen R. Covey, to “be proactive” for effective communication. This idea encourages people to live within what he calls their “Circle of Control,” rather than living in what he calls their “Circle of No Control.” When you live in your Circle of Control, you spend most of your time controlling the only person you can really control—yourself. This is the opposite of living most of your life in your Circle of No Control, which is where people spend most of their time trying to control others. People who are proactive live their lives in their Circle of Control and are more likely to communicate with grace than individuals who spend their lives in their Circle of No Control.

The truth is you cannot control your spouse, your children, your siblings, your parents, or your relatives. You truly can control only yourself. So when someone says something to you that is not very nice, rather than using your energy trying to change them, it is much more profitable to use that time developing your response of peace and grace. As we have mentioned before, between what someone says to you and your response, there is a space. So, before you respond, remember to do three things in that space: pause, think, and choose.

When someone says something to us we don’t like, we tend to respond quickly and in a similar manner. However, to communicate with grace— to respond in a way they do not deserve—you need to be proactive, to live in your Circle of Control, to pause, so that you have time to catch your breath before saying something that will cause equal pain or make things worse. In that space—before your response—you also need to think about what you should not say and what you should say to make things better. Finally, you need to choose the correct response. The correct response is the one that will calm things down rather than adding fuel to the fire. This is what it means to use words as gifts of gold and silver. Individuals who give little thought to building healthy family relationships live in their Circle of No Control. Rather than making careful choices about how they respond in their conversation with a family member, they blame the other person for starting the fight and feel justified in insulting the other person. These individuals respond in a reactive way rather than choosing to be proactive. They do not take the space between what the other person says and their response and do not consider the consequences and impact their response will have on the relationship. Therefore, they do not pause, they do not think, and they do not make good choices for the health of their relationship with the family member in question.

People often tell us it is too difficult to live being this careful not to hurt the feelings of their loved ones. They say it is not normal. That people simply need to quit being so sensitive. That pain will inevitably happen when we communicate with others.

While in some ways this is true, family relationships as well as other relationships are similar to driving a car. When we get to a red traffic light, we stop. What would feel natural is to keep driving to get to our destination more quickly and without interruptions. However, because we are not the only ones driving on the roads of the cities or towns where we live, we have to be mindful of sharing the road with other drivers who are going in different directions.

Traffic lights are present to help all drivers get to their final destinations safely. If we are patient enough, we all get an opportunity to get to where we are going. If we are not careful to give attention to the traffic lights placed in strategic locations, we will most likely run into other cars, potentially hurting ourselves and others, perhaps even causing a fatal accident because of our lack of attention and concern.

Family relationships are very fragile, and the conversations you have in those relationships need great care. If you are intentional about being careful and nurturing in your family relationships, those choices will help keep your relationships safe and avoid hurt feelings that may lead to the death of a relationship.

So, what is the responsibility of the husband with hurt feelings? Does the fact that his wife said something to cause him pain give him the right to say something to hurt her back? Of course not. In fact, this is his opportunity to communicate with grace. To respond to his wife in a way that she may not deserve. That is the true meaning of grace. Here is where the husband needs to live in his Circle of Control and be proactive. Here is where the husband gets to pause, to think, and to choose the correct response, to keep his marriage relationship healthy and strong, despite what his wife said.

It is true that because we are all human, even if we don’t mean to hurt one of our family members on purpose, we will predictably say something or do something that causes them pain. When this happens, it is our opportunity to apologize; this is her opportunity to live in her Circle of Control and take responsibility for what she did rather than blaming the other person for being too sensitive. This is where the wife can say that she is sorry for causing her husband emotional pain, even if that was not her intention. Here is where the wife can decide to pause, think, and choose the correct response to help build a stronger and healthier relationship with her husband.

The wisdom of the New Testament is also very practical and helpful when looking for effective ways to communicate with grace. We shared this with you earlier, and we want to share again what James 1:19 says: “Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak and slow to become angry” (NIV).

So while some may be thinking that women or children should be the ones quick to listen and slow to speak, the wise counsel from the Bible is that “everyone should be quick to listen, and slow to speak.” Which means, no one in the family is without responsibility to communicate well, to communicate with grace. And, often, communicating well begins by learning to listen well to enhance all of our family relationships.