---
title: Notice
subtitle: Week 10
---

As we slow down the pace of our lives, we find that we begin to notice more. 

As we do this, we can notice the emotional needs that lie behind our children’s behavior.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Share a time someone noticed you in some way, and it encouraged you.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

**Read Psalm 116:1, 2**. Share what this verse tells you about how God relates to you. In what ways can you follow God’s example in how you listen and respond to your children?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

As our children grow, it’s important to be “tuned in” to their needs—to listen to their words, to watch their actions, and to look for cues as to how we can respond well.

> “They sense when Mr. Two-Year-Old is afraid and offer comfort and the security of their arms, never belittling his fear. Recognizing that some things frighten little children, they also know that comfort—not shame—alone will help him outgrow his fears and will teach the spiritual lessons of love and trust.
> ‘Tuned-in’ parents perceive when Miss Three-Year-Old is cross because she’s hungry—not merely contrary—and thus provide some distraction to help until mealtime instead of scolding. They also try to keep meals on a regular schedule.
> Such parents recognize when Mr. Four-Year-Old is challenging their authority and asking to be reminded who is in control—and they remind him” (Donna Habenicht, _How to Help your Child Really Love Jesus_, p. 9).

It’s too easy to respond in our own tiredness or frustration when our children react a certain way to challenging situations. Yet our children need our maturity in our responses to them to help them navigate the world. We need to take time to notice their emotions, and our responses should show an overwhelming message of love. This will communicate God’s love to them—that He’s on their side always, no matter what happens to us. It’s through our love that children come to understand God’s love.

> “If your child emerges from early childhood with her love needs only half met, she will likely spend the rest of her life trying to satisfy those deep, unfilled thirsts and hungers” (Donna Habenicht, _How to Help your Child Really Love Jesus_, p. 10).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Discuss insights from this passage.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

What inhibits you from really listening to your loved ones when they talk to you?

- TV
- iPhone/iPad
- Social media engagement
- Multitasking
- Lack of eye contact
- Being absent (long work hours)

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Commit

Practice noticing and listening to your child, spouse, or a friend this week, taking note of the things that are behind each other’s moods or actions.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-01-bb-pth/01/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Unlike anyone on earth, God notices all of our needs.\
Thank Him for being an all-knowing, loving God.\
Ask Him to help you observe, identify, and fulfill the\
needs of your spouse and children.