---
title: How To Unite Hearts
---

> <p></p>
> “He will turn the hearts of the parents to their children, and the hearts of the children to their parents” (Malachi 4:6).

The principle of love was established by God before sin, so that Adam, Eve and their offspring could live in happiness. We have seen how Satan has mixed the meaning of love with passion, free sex and fleshly desires. So, it was necessary for God to create a difference between true love and human love. God established love as an eternal behavior principle and not a feeling, or a physical sensation, much less a casual experience. Pure love, in any circumstance, is that vital element that brings peace to the heart and guides the mind to rightly decide how to solve problems.

In a culture where people’s minds are mostly focused on what is evil, we need something in our personal experience to help us keep alive in our minds this principle of true love. This “something” is conversion or justification by faith in Christ. This was the second principle that the Lord granted in Eden, so that Adam and Eve could still love each other, even after sin entered. Genesis 3:15 and 21 tell us a lamb was sacrificed for our first parents. Blood was shed to teach the world that true love can only come by faith in the Lamb of God! In other words, we receive such love by daily walking with Christ.

A son once had a serious argument with his father. The mother watched the heated discussion but remained silent. When the son left the house, she said to her husband: “Ernest, you were not right. Why are you so demanding of the boy?”

The husband replied, “Do you think I should humble myself before that difficult young man? He would always think he was right!”

To which the wife responded, “You are mistaken! Aren’t we Christians? Listen Ernest, we should teach our children that we live by God’s for giveness. Family unity does not depend on your authority, but from our Savior’s grace and faithfulness.” The husband had no response.

Later, when his son came back home, the father called him and said: “My son, you were right. I am sorry for not seeing this sooner. Please, forgive me!”

“My father,” replied the son with a lump in his throat. Then he turned away before his father could see his tears of thankfulness. – Power and Light, 06/12/60.

_—Moysés S. Nigri, Walking with God Every Day, p. 339_