---
title: Step
subtitle: Week 4
---

Small, daily family habits influence what your home is like for your children.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

Ask those in the group to share a positive tradition that they experienced in their home when they were young (it doesn’t necessarily have to be spiritual). After each person has shared, point out that the traditions mentioned were clearly unforgettable and have made a lasting impression on each member of the group. Regular traditions are a good way to create intentional memories and implant meaningful messages in your children’s lives. We also need to think about how we can create meaningful spiritual traditions that pursue our overall goals.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

**Read Deuteronomy 6:6–9.**

As you read, think about the phrases that are important.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

This Bible passage shows us a big goal (loving the Lord) and shows us what it looks like in everyday life (what we need to do to reach this goal). It shows us what is important, and how we can put this into practice each day.

- What is God’s main message for you in these inspired words?
- What do these verses say about the everyday moments that our children can learn from? What might such moments look like in your home as your little one grows?

Last week we explored that it’s important for your little one to know God. Knowing Him involves opening the heart to God. The KJV Bible mentions the word “believe” 131 times, “faith” 231 times, and the word “heart” 762 times. God loves your child even more than you do and wants to have a close relationship with him or her—and with you!

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

- How might the details outlined in Deuteronomy 6:6–9 connect with the goal of connecting your child’s heart with God? What family traditions, practices, and routines might you put in place that can grow your child’s love for Jesus? (There are lots of ways that are shared in the Baby Steps Parent Book to spark your thinking.)

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Commit

This week, together with your spouse or a friend, extend your thinking and come up with two ideas (two small steps) that you can weave into the culture of your home to nurture a heart connection with God (in addition to the mind).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-01-bb-pth/01/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Pray for your baby’s relationship with Jesus,\
both for now and in their future.\
Ask God to help you put into place small steps\
that will grow this relationship.