---
title: Sabbath Afternoon
---

#### Introduction

Last week we began our study of the concept of lordship. We learned that Jesus is Lord, and that surrender to Him is at the very starting point of discipleship. We reviewed the biblical concept that we must die daily—that spiritually, self has to yield to God’s control on the issues of daily life.

This week we will go deeper into the concept of Jesus as Lord. We will discover that Scripture reveals something greater than simply obeying God. Instead, Bible writers present us with the incredible concept of spiritual partnership and intimacy with the indwelling Christ.

This intimacy began with creation; Adam and Eve were created for friendship with God. Adam began life in the cradle of God’s arms, awakened by the kiss of life. Discovering God and his own identity in relationship with God were his first conscious thoughts. This capacity for intimacy with the Almighty continues today. In fact, we are born with the need for this intimacy. Only as we find that union with God will we find peace and satisfaction.

Lordship is the realization of that union with God for which we were born. Here, the very presence of God transforms our hearts. When Jesus promised “another Comforter,” He also promised to return to us (John 14:18). The coming of the Comforter would bring the assurance of His presence: “On that day you will realize that I am in my Father, and you are in me, and I am in you” (John 14:20). This indwelling presence of Christ is the essential core of the biblical concept of discipleship. Intimacy with God empowers our daily living.

> <callout></callout>
> Accepting His presence within us, we become God’s ultimate temple.

Paul presents the promise “that according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith” (Ephesians 3:16-17, ESV). Paul concludes that, as a result of knowing the height and depth of God’s love, we will be “filled with all the fullness of God” (Ephesians 3:15- 19). This is the scope of the promised intimacy with God—Christ bringing the fullness of God into our lives. Accepting His presence within us, we become God’s ultimate temple.

While this relationship offers so very much, it also confronts us with far-reaching demands that are in direct contrast to the contemporary Christianity that has been assimilated by the world around us. This Christianity has lost its power, for it has abandoned its Source—the indwelling Christ. Instead of debating over issues of obedience or arguing about how to keep the Sabbath, we discover that our relationship with Jesus is something much more radical—a life of intimate union with Him. Each part of that life is transformed by His presence.

As we walk with God, discipleship moves from following from a distance to a journey with a friend. It moves from human attempts to obey and meet God’s standard to the realization of Christ’s transforming presence. It leads to the fulfillment of God’s promise to work in us “both to will, and to do” (Philippians 2:13). He is Lord. You and I have the privilege of living out this experience in everyday life. How? By abiding in Him and allowing Him to abide in us. Thus, lordship moves from a theological expression to a living relationship with the king.

#### Objectives For This Week

Our objectives for this week include the following:

- We want to understand the biblical reality that Christ wants to dwell in us.
- We want to understand how to accept Jesus as living within us.
- We want to explore the implications of an intimate union with God.

#### Holy Habit—Practicing The Presence Of God

God has promised to be with us (Matthew 28:20). He said, “When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and when you pass through the rivers, they will not sweep over you. . . . (Isaiah 43:2, NIV). The Psalmist portrays that there is no place we can go that God cannot find us (Psalm 139:7-10).

So God is with us at all times. However, we forget this reality and live our lives in our own strength and power. Too often we find ourselves spiritually isolated while surrounded by the fullness of God’s presence. Our challenge is to learn to be consciously open to and spiritually accept the reality of His presence.

Practicing the presence of God is the art of consciously seeking to be alert to and aware of God’s presence in our lives because:

- He has promised to be with us.
- It is the work of the Holy Spirit to bring His presence to us.
- We can do things which will help us be more sensitive to the reality of His presence.

This Holy Habit of practicing God’s presence has the power to transform our lives. Just imagine what it would be like to have God’s presence with us at all times! How would things change in our relationships and behavior if we could visibly see God sitting or walking beside us? He really is here with us. We just have to train ourselves to be conscious or aware of His presence. When we do, our lives our transformed. We cannot dwell in His presence and remain the same.

God has invited us to come before the throne of grace or into His presence. The following pointers may help in the practicing the presence of God:

- Use your imagination to picture God being with you in all you do.
- Make room for God in your daily life, physically, mentally, and in your time.
- Try to think of God at regular intervals throughout the day. Start with longer periods of time and move down to thinking of Him at least once each minute.
- Try to keep one part of your mind focused on or thinking of God at all times.
- Be conscious of the reality that you are in the presence of God at all times.

We can learn to live in God’s presence. In the meantime, a little practice will help.

#### Suggested Prayer

Here is a suggested prayer as we begin this week of our journey with God in study, reflection, and growth:

`Dear Father of Love, Help me to be aware of your presence in my life. You have promised to be with us. I claim that promise and ask that you help me be aware of how you are involved in my life. Help me open my mind to the reality that you are here with me now. In Jesus’ name, Amen.`

List below three objectives for your journey with God during this week:

`1.`

`2.`

`3.`