---
title: Sunday
---

#### Today’s Objective

We continue to explore the level of intimacy that God offers us in the discipleship journey. Very few of us really understand God’s desire for us. We want to recognize what He offers and learn to enter into a deeper relationship with Him.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Loving Father, I come seeking to understand just how much of a relationship you offer to me. I want more of you. I want to know you better and love you more. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse

This week we start with memory verse #7. Again we want to follow our process for memorizing and reviewing this verse with a card.

> Ezekiel 36:26-27 (NIV)—“I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you; I will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws.”

> Ezekiel 36:26-27 (KJV)—“A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you: and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you an heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and ye shall keep my judgments, and do them.”

#### Memory Verse Review

Once again, we want to review memory verses from the last two weeks. Today we are reviewing memory verse #4 (1 John 5:13) and #6 (Matthew 11:28-30). Use the cards to help you review these verses and reflect on their application to your life.

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

It is now time to turn to Scripture and explore God’s promises to be with us, and what that can mean for us.

`Read Matthew 1:23—Reflect on what the name Immanuel means to our relationship with God. Write the key points from your thoughts below:`

`Read the story of Mary and Martha in Luke 10:38-42. Which are you more like, Mary or Martha? How does this affect your relationship with God?`

`Read Exodus 25:8 and coMPaRe it witH 1 Corinthians 6:19-20—How does God’s desire to dwell “with us” and to make our bodies His temple impact your thinking about your relationship with God?`

`Read Matthew 28:18-20—How does Jesus’ promise to be with us affect your thinking about the challenges you face?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Dear Lord, Help me catch a vision of what you want for my life. Help me understand how I can be a temple for your Spirit. Teach me to open my life to your presence. In Jesus’ name, Amen._