---
title: Monday
---

#### Today’s Objective

We continue looking at God’s promises to be with us. We especially want to understand the role of the Holy Spirit in our lives. We want to see what Scripture tells us about the Holy Spirit bringing the presence of Christ into our lives.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Father in Heaven, Jesus promised to be with us. Help me to understand how that can be more real for me. Show me how to open my heart more fully to your presence. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Today we need to review memory verse #7 from yesterday (Ezekiel 36:26-27).

`Spend a few minutes reflecting on what this promise means to you.`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now open you Bible and spend a few minutes in reflection and growth as you read and study what God has for you today.

`Read the story in Matthew 14:13-33—In what ways have you wanted to “step out of the boat” in your spiritual journey with God? How does your experience compare with Peter’s?`

`Read John 14:16-21—What does Jesus promise of the Holy Spirit mean to you? What does verse 20 tell us about where God wants to be?`

`Read Colossians 1:27—How does Paul’s promise of Christ being in us bring us hope? How does this compare with John 14:20 (see above)?`

`Read Galatians 3:14—What does this passage tell us about how we receive the Holy Spirit? What factors fight against you receiving the Holy Spirit?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Dear Father, Help me to understand the biblical truth that Christ wants to dwell in me. Help me open my life to your presence and give you room to work. In Jesus’ name, Amen._