---
title: Tuesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today we want to explore how God’s presence brings strength and comfort into our lives. As we study more of what Scripture says about what God’s presence can do in our lives, we will find comfort and strength.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear Heavenly Father, You promised to be with us. Help me understand just what that can mean to me today. Help me experience your strength and comfort in my life today. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

We have two verses to review today, memory verse #1 (Jeremiah 31:3) and verse #7 (Ezekiel 36:26-27). This extended review helps us memorize the passage. It also helps us make that passage and its truth part of our daily life. Spend a few minutes using your imagination to apply these verses to your life.

`How can the presence of the Holy Spirit in your life change the way you live today?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

We now want to spend the next few minutes in quiet reflection and study as we turn to Scripture.

`Read the story in Mark 4:35-41. Reflect on how Jesus can sleep so calmly in the midst of the storm. What areas of your life are stormy and how could Jesus’ presence make a difference?`

`Read the story in Luke 7:11-17—What does Jesus’ compassion and power teach you about how He can make a difference in your life today?`

`Read Philippians 4:4-7—Take special note of the statement that God is near. How can His presence bring you contentment and peace?`

`Read Isaiah 43:1-2—How can the assurance of God’s presence help you face a crisis in your life? In what areas of your life would you like to experience God’s presence today? After you have reflected on these questions, spend a few minutes claiming these promises of God’s presence.`

#### Commitment Prayer

Finish your study with a prayer such as:

_Dear Lord, Your presence changes things in my life. Knowing that you care enough to be with me gives me strength for today. I claim these promises as mine today. Help me to believe and integrate them into this day. In Jesus’ name, Amen._