---
title: Wednesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today we want to explore the power that is available to us with God’s presence. He promised that we would have power for every area of life. We want to understand how His power can change the way we live.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear Loving Father, Help me to catch a vision of the power that is available to help me live with you today. I invite you to guide my study and help me understand more of what you give me to help me live each day. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse

We start memorizing verse #8 today. Once again we will need to use the memory system we have been using during the last three weeks. Write the passage out on a card and carry that card with you to help you review and reflect on this passage throughout the day.

> 2 Peter 1:3-4 (NIV)—“His divine power has given us everything we need for life and godliness through our knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and goodness. Through these he has given us his very great and precious promises, so that through them you may participate in the divine nature and escape the corruption in the world caused by evil desires.”

> 2 Peter 1:3-4 (KJV)—“According as his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue: Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.”

#### Memory Verse Review

We also want to review memory verse #5 (Proverbs 3:5-6) from last week. Spend a few minutes reflecting on this passage and its implications for our lives today.

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now it is time to open our Bibles and study. Ask the Holy Spirit to guide your thinking on this vital subject for today.

`Read the story in Mark 5:21-43. Try to imagine what it would have been like to be there when the story happened. What details from this story speak to you, and why?`

`Read and reflect on today’s memory verse, 2 Peter 1:3-4. What limits exist to the power that God promises us in this passage?`

`How can the reality of this promise change your life today?`

`In what areas of your life do you want to claim this promise today?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Loving God, I claim your presence and power in my life today. I am dependent upon you for everything in my life. Help me to trust you and believe that these promises are mine. Give me wisdom and strength to meet the issues that I will confront during this day. In Jesus’ name, Amen._