---
title: Thursday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our objective today is to explore one of the most powerful lordship concepts in all of Scripture—obedience is the result of God’s presence in our lives. Because we love Him, we want to obey God. We have tried and failed many times. Today, we go deeper into one of the most incredible truths in all of Scripture.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear God, I want to walk with you. I want to learn to obey you more. Yet I struggle in areas of my life. Help me understand more of what you offer me. Help me believe that you can change my life. Give me faith to trust your power. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Today we want to review our two verses from this week, #7 (Ezekiel 36:26-27) and #8 (2 Peter 1:3-4). Once again, we will want to use our review card process.

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now it is time to return to God’s Word and explore more of what He offers us today.

`Read the story oF tHe RicH young RuleR in Matthew 19:16-26. Try to put yourself into the story. Have you ever felt like you were doing all the right things, and there was still something missing from your life? What points from this story speak to your present situation?`

`Read Ezekiel 36:26-27—How does God promise to bring obedience into our lives? Where and how could this change your life?`

`Read Philippians 2:12-13—How does this passage compare with Ezekiel 36:26-27 (see above)? What are the two specific promises in this passage that lead to an obedient life?`

`Read Ephesians 2:4-10—What does this passage teach us about obedience or “good works?” How is this obedience an extension of the grace that saves us?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Lord of Love, Teach me to walk with you. Teach me to give you room to work in my life. Help me to accept the reality of your presence with me. Help me choose to obey and trust you to produce that obedience in me. In Jesus’ name, Amen._