---
title: Friday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our purpose today is to understand and explore how God’s presence helps us grow spiritually. The exciting discipleship journey with God means constant growth. It means each new day brings new insight and opportunity.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear God of Love, Take my study time today and open my mind to what you want to do in my life. Help me as I reflect on your Word. Send your Holy Spirit to guide me as I reflect on your truth. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Our review text for today is memory verse #8 (2 Peter 1:3-4). Follow the review process we have established by now and spend a few minutes reflecting on this promise.

`How can this promise change your life?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

It is now time to continue our exploration of biblical truth. We want to understand how God wants to change and transform us.

`Read Genesis 32:1-28—What does the story of Jacob teach us about our spiritual journey? In what ways are you tempted to try to solve problems yourself and wait to call on God only when nothing else works?`

`Read Ephesians 3:16-19—We have looked at this passage before and it has even more depths for us to explore. How can Christ “dwell in our hearts”?`

`What are the results of Christ being in us?`

`Read Galatians 4:19—What does it mean for Christ to be “formed within” us?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Dear God, I am amazed by the promises I have studied this week. Help me to realize that they are true—that you can do what your Word says. I invite you into my life and ask that you will change and transform me into your image. Help me to be like Jesus. In Jesus’ name, Amen._