---
title: A Contented Mind
date: 04/16/2025
---

_Richard Neil_

> <p></p>
> And now, my friends, all that is true, all that is noble, all that is just and pure, all that is lovable and gracious, whatever is excellent and admirable—fill all your thoughts with these things. Phil. 4:8, NEB.

While working as an Army physician, I noticed that near the end of the year many of the wives, especially those of servicemen on extended duty away from home, would come to the dispensary looking for tranquilizers.

However, one woman, a nurse, always had a smile on her face and a bubbly personality. Since this was quite unusual, I asked how she could keep such a sunny disposition while everyone around her was so nervous and depressed. Here was her response:

"Frequently people share gossip and other negative information about what is going on around the base. But when someone comes to my house, I invite them to have a seat while I continue working and listen to their chatter. But if they begin talking about who is having problems, whose children are getting into trouble, or whose husband or wife is unfaithful, I stop them and say, 'I have enough problems of my own, so I don't need to hear about others. If you want to talk happy, you are free to stay, but if you want to talk negative, you will have to leave.'

"As you can expect," she said laughingly, "I don't have many close friends, but those I have are positive.

"The second thing I do is keep my mind fresh and alive. Whenever I read about something in the news or the papers that I don't understand, I run to the library and ask the librarian if she can help me find books that I can understand to explain the problem area, so I always keep my mind filled with new information and positive thoughts. That's why I don't need medicine to keep me happy."

Two points that will help you keep a contented mind:

1. Avoid negative input—from anyone.
2. Keep improving your mind.

Paul said the same thing in our text for today. The secret to the successful Christian life lies not so much in what we do as in what we choose to let into our minds. Positive, kind, excellent, admirable, and praiseworthy thoughts breed the same kind of mind in us as was in Christ Jesus.

> <callout></callout>
> What will you fill your mind with today?

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._