---
title: "People Behind Numbers: A Positive Perspective of Membership Auditing"
---

_Edward Heidinger and Charles Rampanelli_

### Fundamental Considerations

As a church, our greatest treasure are people (Malachi 3:17). They were entrusted to us by God as His flock (John 10:16), His family (1 John 3:1, 2).<sup>1</sup> It is our duty to work for their salvation.<sup>2</sup>

“The Secretariat has information about these members. However, the information is relevant when it is updated and used. The more this information about our members, the more effective pastoral care becomes. Thus, up-to-date member data provide key information for more effective pastoral work.”

“What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he loses one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he finds it?” (Luke 15:4).

What is the situation of the sheep?

_She is lost._

What is the pastoral attention?

_The pastor goes and finds her._

How does the pastor know that the sheep is lost?

_He has to count them!_

Misunderstanding of the needs and challenges faced by members can cause problems. We need to know the members and their individual characteristics. An option that helps us keep up-to-date member data for pastoral work is the Permanent Review Program. This is a simple means of working through which members can be taken care of permanently, analyzing their condition, establishing and executing plans to reach and develop them.

### How to Conduct The Permanent Review Program?<sup>3</sup>

As a solution for this, the Special Revision Group (SRG) can be a great tool. The Special Revision Group is a permanent subcommittee that works with the local church directive committee.<sup>4</sup>

#### Special Revision Group—Composition:

1. Four to six members chosen by the church board.
2. Suggestion: pastor, elder, clerk, treasurer, and two or three more members who are familiar with the congregation.
3. It should operate permanently. The board may replace the members as needed.

#### Responsibilities of the SRG

1. Screen all names in the membership records, classifying them in one of these auxiliary lists:

- Regular Frequent Members
- Regular Nonfrequent Members
- Attends Another SDA Church
- Absent Members List
- Members to Rescue

2. Update the five lists every 12 months.

3. Meet to follow up on the progress of the Permanent Review Program.

4. Present a report of the work done to the church board—once every three months. This should be one of the first items of the agenda.

#### Responsibilities of the Church Board<sup>5</sup>

1. Appreciate the reports presented by the SRG.
2. Appoint a person responsible to lead the work in favor of each group list.<sup>6</sup>
3. Define what types of service/care should be provided to the members of each list.
4. The committee may follow the evolution of each list by checking 
the increase or decrease of members in each list. Quarterly you can devote time to this task. In addition, for example, you can conduct deeper studies and plans for specific groups or special age groups. In a quarter, rescued youth can be targeted for special actions. At the next meeting, seniors who are classified as infrequent regulars may be involved. And so on.
5. Provide a list to the pastor/elder with the names of the members who left the church, to be considered for the Reunion Project (rescue of former members). In a church with many members, a subcommittee to work with a large number of members to be rescued may be formed.

#### Responsibilities of the Church Clerk

1. Provide an updated membership list from ACMS (Secretariat System) and the forms for the five auxiliary lists used for the activities of the SRG.
2. Participate in the elaboration of the five auxiliary lists as member of the SRG.
3. Based on the auxiliary lists, update each member’s record on ACMS after the SRG has submitted its report in the church board.
4. Update membership ranking during the period between the SRG meetings. This classification will be validated by the executive committee, whenever analyzed on its agenda.
5. To include on the executive committee’s agenda quarterly the membership rating analysis. The secretariat may even suggest specific studies to assist the committee in planning the care of its members. Newly baptized members, absent from Sabbath School, new generation, not frequent because of work (those who travel, for example), age or health, among others.
6. Monitor the progress of the work done with the members of the five lists. The secretariat, by constantly updating member rankings, can view and assist in monitoring, supervising, and caring for members with the knowledge of the context surrounding the members. Therefore, in a large church, a larger team is likely to be needed to assist the local church secretary.

#### The Five Auxiliary Lists

These lists are confidential. Only members’ names, without additional data, should be submitted to members of the SRG and of the local church executive committee. This is a very important issue, because while the classification does not define a specific action for the church, information confidentiality will protect members and will provide church leaders with the time and privacy to engage in the rescue and development of their brethren.<sup>7</sup> Members must be classified on ACMS based on them.

In this working view, members can be classified into five groups: Regular Frequent Members; Regular Nonfrequent Members; Attends Another SDA Church; Absent Members List; Members to Rescue. Next, you can see a brief description of who would form each group and some suggestive actions for them.

**Regular Frequent Members**

Members who attend frequently
Newly baptized members (past 12 months)
Other members

_Procedures_:

- Update the information on their membership records.
- Have a permanent visitation plan.
- Involve them in church ministries.
- Although these members are attending church, be careful that they do not change their ranks by helping them to stay connected to Jesus in a life of real discipleship.<sup>8</sup>

**Regular Nonfrequent Members**
Members with irregular attendance
Members with difficulty of locomotion
- Elderly members
- Members who are ill
- People with special needs

_Procedures_:

- Update the information on their membership records.
- Develop a visitation plan that meets the needs perceived for each case.
- Involve them in church ministries, especially Sabbath School.

NOTE: Try to create condition so that they may become regular, frequent members.

This may be one of the groups that should pay more attention to their potential risk. If something is not done for them, they will probably change their ranking, and it will not be to the frequent ranking.

**Attends Another SDA Church**

Members to be received
Members to send

_Procedures_:

- Members to be received: Follow the process as outlined in Chapter 4 and move their name to the regular members’ list.
- Members to send: Inform the church where they currently are members, through ACMS, that they desire a transfer and wait for this church to send the letter of yransfer.
- Members who are attending a church other than the church where they are registered at may be at risk of not receiving the pastoral care and attention needed to develop their lives with God and the community of believers.

**Absent Members List**

Members who have not attended church services for more than six months and whose whereabouts are unknown

_Procedures_:

- Post the list on the church’s bulletin board and publish on ACMS.
- Distribute this list to church officials and other members who can help.
- After you have spent at least two years with no success in locating the member, and exhausted all resources in this search, follow the process of the _Seventh-day Adventist Church Manual_ and remove the name from the auxiliary list.
- Perhaps because they are not permanently monitored by the church, either in a Sabbath School class or by the local church executive committee, these members have entered a challenging situation, where removal will probably be the end result.

**Members to Rescue**

Members who are not living in harmony with church doctrines

_Procedures_:

- Organize the Reunion Project, which includes a visitation plan.
- In case the member returns, move their name to the auxiliary list of regular members.
- The rescued member must be involved in an active discipleship plan, in saving others, to be developed and not to return to his or her state.<sup>9</sup>
- After having made every effort to rescue,<sup>10</sup> but have had no success, apply the corresponding disciplinary measure according to the procedures specified in the _Church Manual_ and remove their name from the auxiliary list.

Currently, all members of the South Brazil Union Conference are classified under ACMS in one of five groups. Reviews, meetings, plans, and actions at all levels within this framework are a result of this desire to better shepherd its members.

But how can you rank all members of a region with more than 2,000 churches? In addition, how to continue the process started so that the data is updated and used for the best results?<sup>11</sup> To reach this destination requires a road and a vehicle.

### Plan For Excellence—The Road<sup>12</sup>

In order for the secretariat to continue with the plan it had begun, to execute it with excellence, something more was needed. We did not expect only punctual actions, but a process. In addition, new clerks in local churches needed full instruction and in a short time for the movement to continue.

For this, we needed a way, a guide that would tell us what was expected of a secretary/clerk. This route should be simple and understandable, but complete and involve the day-to-day work of the secretariat.

Then the idea came from a secretary! Why don’t we have a program of excellence, with requirements to be met, with points for each activity? The name of the excellence program in Portuguese is _Secretaria Nota 1000_ (in English, it could be translated as “Class A Clerk”). The goal is to motivate and encourage the local church secretariat to do its job with excellence.

One of the great secrets to the effectiveness of this plan is a year-round monitoring and follow-up process.<sup>13</sup> Only launching of the excellence plan is not enough. Quarterly reports, controls, and incentives are fundamental.

At first, all the secretaries of the local churches communicated directly with the conference. The work was getting clearer and clearer, but it was still necessary to speed up the information, instruction, and execution of the secretariat’s activities.

Within the excellence plan, each activity has a specific score totaling 1,000 points (hence the name in Portuguese). The higher the challenge and importance of the item, the higher the score. Some items, because they are only partially fulfilled and a partial score is still achieved. Others require full compliance for the score. A gift recognition is given to each secretary who reaches 1,000 points. However, the greatest prize is to know that work is done with excellence, for our God is worthy of it.<sup>14</sup> The more the secretary gets involved in doing the work effectively, the more joy and energy are involved, bringing positive results to the local church and the care of members.<sup>15</sup>

The requirements in the plan of excellence broadly involve the work of the local church secretary. When the plan began, he had simpler items. Over the years (this program began to be implemented in 2014 in the North Santa Catarina Conference, and in 2016 throughout the South Brazil Union Conference) the level of difficulty of the items was increasing, as well as the development of the local church secretaries. In addition, the percentage of secretaries who reach the highest score increases year by year. In addition, 7 standard requirements for all conferences, and they are free to add additional items as indicated by the local need.

To assist the secretaries of the local churches, 6 of the 9 Conferences of the South Brazil Union Conference have a Secretariat Auditor, being one of the main activities to assist in the process of classifying and analyzing the list of members. In addition, a simple manual has been prepared with guidelines on how to accomplish each of the excellence plan requirements. These guidelines include images of the secretariat’s system for carrying out actions in the office, as well as advice for conducting activities, such as preparing for the local church board. One of the most commonly used items in this material are the suggestive models of agenda and vows for the minutes of the local church (one of the requirements of the plan of excellence).

Below is a comparison of the requirements of the years 2014, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020. In 2015 there was only one change, indicated below. The requirements of 2016 were the same as 2015 requirements.

**Class A Clerk—2014**

1. Use the ACMS frequently (at least once a month—in 2015 this item has been expanded to at least twice a month).
2. Attend the trainings.
3. Register the church officials in the ACMS.
4. Update the membership registry.
5. Register the baptismal cards in the ACMS.
6. Register the church in the ACMS.
7. Complete the integrated report on a quarterly basis.
8. Conduct the reunion project.
9. Have a discipleship plan for the newly baptized.
10. Participate in the committees and write the minutes.

**Class A Clerk—2017**

1. Participate in the trainings (regional, integrated, district, etc.).
2. Register the officers in the ACMS.
3. Update the list of members.
4. Update the member registry (address, contact, pictures, etc.).
5. Register the ACMS baptism cards.
6. Keep the church record updated on the ACMS (updated church and mailing address, church contacts, service times, church picture, etc.).
7. Complete the integrated report of the departments on the requested dates.
8. Conduct the reunion project (actions to rescue people away from the church).
9. Enroll 100 percent of Sabbath School members.
10. Standardized committees and registries.
11. Participate in committees.Keep the book of minutes updated. Keep the book of acts updated.Keep the wedding book updated.

**Class A Clerk—2018**

1. Register the baptismal vow forms on ACMS.
2. Update the membership lists on ACMS.
3. Update membership records on ACMS.
4. Register officers on ACMS.
5. Complete the ACMS integrated report for departments by the requested date.
6. Organize the reunion project.
7. Enroll 100 percent of members in Sabbath School.
8. Prepare church board agendas.
9. Prepare book of minutes according to standards.
10. Keep the book of minutes updated.

**Class A Clerk—2019**

1. Biannual classification of members on ACMS.
2. Analysis of CRM/discipleship in the monthly agenda of the church board.
3. Register the baptismal vow forms on ACMS.
4. Update membership lists on ACMS.
5. Integrated reports.
6. Reunion project.
7. Prepare minutes according to standard.

**Class A Clerk—2020**

1. Review the updated rank in the committee (quarterly).
2. Analysis of the CRM in the executive committee (monthly).
3. Register baptism cards in the ACMS (soon after they are forwarded).
4. Update the list of members in ACMS (throughout the year). Complete the integrated report in ACMS (January, April, July, and October).
5. Carry out the reunion project/rescue of the Estranged (throughout the year).
6. Prepare the standardized book of minutes (throughout the year).

### Districts Secretariat—The Vehicle<sup>16</sup>

At this point we felt the need for a means through which the clerks, who by now knew the way, to know how to move in it. We felt they needed someone who could accompany and aid in their difficulties.<sup>17</sup> That is how the idea for district secretaries came about!

The process of implementing the district secretaries program is relatively simple and quite natural. We can divide it into four parts:

I. Appointment
II. Training
III. Mission
IV. Motivation

#### I. Appointment<sup>18</sup>

The profile and the character of the district secretary are important to the choice and performance of this task.<sup>19</sup> Experience and technical knowledge are important in this function, but accessibility, availability, agility, and ability to relate and motivate are much more. The position of the clerk is technical. The position of district secretary is one of leadership. Demand and profile are different.

The process by which a district secretary is elected may vary. It may happen through a voting process among church clerks, but we have seen good results when we ask for the suggestion of the district pastor. This brings authority and support to the district secretary.

#### II. Training

The district secretary will need to be trained, instructed, and closely monitored, especially after their appointment. Because the profile and demands of this function are different from those of a church clerk, district secretaries need to know exactly what is expected of them, what tools they will have and how to use them.

**Training can occur in a few ways:**

- Annual meeting of district secretaries
- In person, by the executive secretary, auditor or conference secretariat, especially for those newly appointed
- Videoconference meetings (Zoom, Skype, etc.)
- Online tests/quizzes about the Secretariat’s Guide and Church Manual

**Among the tools available to the district secretary are:**

- Teamwork
- Quarterly and annual incentives
- Quarterly and annual evaluations (Class A Clerk)
- Follow-up through telephone and WhatsApp
- Quarterly meetings
- Occasional visits
- Assistance from District pastor
- Support from the Conference
- Much prayer, friendship, relationship, and love

#### III. Mission

The district secretariat is the vehicle, but the road is the plan for excellence. To maximize results, the district secretariat must have a very clear and measurable mission.

The district secretaries measure their efficiency as local clerks develop in the plan for excellence, the Class A Clerk.

This is where the vehicle finds a road to excellence. District secretaries knows that a large part of their job is to help local church clerks reach their goals during the year in each church of their district.

#### IV. Motivation

Keeping the group happy, integrated, and motivated is just as important as the previous items. Suggestions to be practiced:

- Annual awards for those who reach a percentage of the proposed goals
- Annual meeting in a pleasant place<sup>20</sup>
- Quarterly meetings with the purpose of interaction of clerks in their districts/regions
- Sporadic visits from Conference employees in their homes
- Phone calls
- Contact via WhatsApp messages and groups
- Make funds available for their work
- Total availability, fast and priority service to this group

The system of district secretaries will not lessen the work of the conference executive secretary, but will exponentially increase the results achieved in the pursuit of excellence and the salvation of people.

### Conclusion

Seeing people as the church’s greatest treasure is necessary, but dealing with numbers in this context is a challenge. Seeing only inputs and outputs is not enough. We need to know the current context of the members we have. Excellent and sustained commitment by the church secretariat and leadership is also needed to do better than what has been done so far.

Some actions have shown good results, but steady progress is vital in this process. These things (plan for excellence and district secretaries) help us to see people behind numbers.

_Edward Heidinger was born in Peru on October 2, 1978. He is married to Susana Heidinger and has two daughters: Priscilla, 14, and Rebekah, 7. He has two bachelor’s degrees: business administration (1999) and theology (2003). He holds a master’s degree in theology (2016) and is beginning his doctoral studies in ministry at Andrews University. He was a district pastor; field department director and executive secretary; union department director, executive secretary, and president; assistant to the president and (currently) executive secretary of the South American Division._

_Charles Edson Rampanelli, Brazilian, was born on October 21, 1978. He is married to Márcia L.B.G. Rampanelli and has two children: Júlia M. G. Rampanelli, 13, and Guilherme G. Rampanelli, 10. He has a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in theology from the Brazil Adventist University, and has been a pastor since 2000. He has worked in several areas of ministry: as an auxiliary pastor, a pastor in the educational area, a district pastor, and departmental director in several areas, as well as executive secretary in local conferences. He is currently the executive secretary of the South Brazil Union Conference._

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _Principles for Christian Leaders_, pp. 16-18.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> In the last days, there will be only one remnant. John says of these that they “keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus” (Revelation 12:17, KJV).

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> Church Secretarial Guide, chapter 10, South American Division.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>4</sup> _Seventh-day Adventist Church Manual_, p. 132.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>5</sup> Ibid., p. 131: “Study membership lists and initiate plans for reconnecting (reclaiming) members who have separated from the church.”

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>6</sup> About the care in dealing with people who have departed from the church, see Thom S. Rainer, _The Book of Church Growth_, p. 284.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>7</sup> E. G. White, p. 134.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>8</sup> See Jim Howard, _Discipleship Handbook_, p. 3.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>9</sup> “Christians who are constantly growing in earnestness, in zeal, in fervor, in love—such Christians never backslide” (Ellen G. White, in _Review and Herald_, June 7, 1887).

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>10</sup> About the job to save the saints, see John Piper, _Brothers, We Are Not Professionals_, pp. 121-127.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>11</sup> To analyze the role of leadership to start and continue the process with the purpose of developing people, see Colin Marshall and Tony Payne, _The Trellis and the Vine_, pp. 102-110.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>12</sup> Secretary’s Agenda 2019—South Brazilian Union Conference.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>13</sup> “Those who are placed in responsible positions should feel it their duty to recognize talent. They should learn how to use men, and how to advise them” (Ellen G. White, _Christian Leadership_, p. 57.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>14</sup> “We must strive for excellence because it is the excellence that honors God. It is the excellence that inspires people” (Bill Hybels, Axioms, p. 251).

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>15</sup> About the trust placed in the team and its results, see Stephen M. R. Covey, _The Speed of Trust_, p. 230.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>16</sup> Participation of Harry James Streithorst, executive secretary of the North Santa Catarina Conference.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>17</sup> About the importance and the foundation of today’s leading leaders, see Emilson dos Reis, _How to Lead_, p. 30.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>18</sup> Choosing people to form a team is a challenge. Some pitfalls and advice to assist with this process can be found in Mike Bonem and Roger Patterson, _Leading From the Second Chair_, pp. 94-97.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>19</sup> “The Lord will use humble [people] to do a great and good work. Through them He will represent to the world the ineffaceable characteristics of the divine nature” (Ellen G. White _Letter 270_, 1907).

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>20</sup> About work and recreation, see Greg McKeown, _Esssentialism_, p. 96.