---
title: Gaining Decisions
---

The ultimate goal for giving Bible studies is to bring people to Jesus and into church fellowship and then train and involve them in reaching out to others. Each study guide has a decision question and, as we have already urged, it is important to get a decision in each lesson. Here is a little extra help in obtaining the big decisions.

### 4 Steps in Getting Decisions

1. The information must be clear; and their questions must be answered. Ask often, “Is it clear that [_]()?”
2. They must feel a conviction that it is right and is what God wants them to do.
3. They must have a desire to do it.
4. They must take action and do it.

After the subject has been studied, is clear, and there is evidence of conviction and a desire to decide, then after much prayer, use the following suggested approach for obtaining each of the three major decisions from those with whom you have been studying:

### Calling for a Decision to Accept Jesus as Savior and Lord

With the use of the study guide (#7 in “Good News for Today”) lead the students to see clearly:

1. Their totally lost condition.
2. They cannot save themselves.
3. Christ paid all that needs to be paid.
4. He purchased eternal life for them on the cross and offers to give it to them as a free gift.
5. There is nothing they can do to deserve it or earn it.
6. To obtain the gift, they must reach out and take it,
   - plead His forgiveness,
   - forsake sin, and
   - receive Jesus into their hearts as both Savior and Lord.

### If the student/s has never accepted Christ, then make a direct personal appeal

“As you have seen clearly the tremendous love of Jesus for you, what He has done for you, and that He offers you the free gift of eternal life, I’m sure you would like to reach out and accept it. Isn’t that right?

“Why don’t we kneel in prayer and you tell God of your decision.

“Let’s review what you would want to say and then you tell God in your own words. If you miss a major point I’ll insert a word or two to remind you and then I will close. OK? (If the person is too shy, he/she can repeat after you.)

“Dear God,\
I am a sinner who is supposed to die.\
I thank you for sending Jesus,\
who died for me,\
purchased eternal life for me, and, wants to give me the gift of eternal life.\
I want to reach out and accept the gift.\
I am sorry for my sins. Please forgive me of all my sins.\
I want to turn away from sin completely.\
I receive Jesus into my heart as Savior and I want to make Him Lord and Master of my life.\
Help me to live for Jesus until He comes.”

Close with a prayer of thanksgiving. Welcome him/her to the family of God, give a copy of Steps to Christ, and urge the person/s to make the commitment daily in an established daily devotional life.

Note: Many people have considered themselves Christians for many years, but after they have studied the guide on salvation (Lesson 7 in “Good News for Today”), it is appropriate to invite them to re-commit their lives to Jesus as both Savior and Lord before the testing truths are studied. If this is the case, you should include yourself in the recommitment.

### Calling for a Decision to Keep the Sabbath

Base the appeal on love for Jesus, the Word of Jesus, and the blessings promised. Ask for a specific, definite action to be carried out without delay.

### Expressing confidence, ask expectantly

“John, you have said that it is clear that Saturday is the Lord’s Day.

“You’ve given your heart to Jesus. I know you love Him more than anything, Isn’t that right?

“Because Jesus says [to you] in John 14:15 (NKJV): ‘If you love Me keep My commandments,’ I’m sure you want to keep all His commandments, including the Sabbath.

“As we have studied in Isaiah 58:13, 14 and elsewhere, He longs to bless you for doing it.

“Therefore, I’m sure you do not want to delay in doing it. David said in Psalms 119:59, 60 (KJV) [read it] ‘I thought on my ways...and delayed not to keep thy commandments.’

“So, because you love Jesus, He asked you to keep His Sabbath and receive His special blessing, why don’t you let me pick you up at 9:00 a.m. this Sabbath morning?”

Close with an earnest prayer of thanks and, possibly, ask him if he would like to thank God for helping him to decide.

### Calling for a Decision to Be Baptized

Make a direct personal appeal.

Ask, “Have you ever studied the topic of baptism by immersion before?”

“Have you been baptized by immersion?”

If the answer is “No,” say,

“I’m sure the example and desire of Jesus is clear, isn’t it? And you want to follow Him in this important matter. Isn’t that right?”

“I’m so happy for your decision.”

“We are planning a baptism on (date) and on (date). Which of those dates would be best for you?”

Close with a prayer of gratitude. Then make plans to stay close to your new family member and, if possible, train him/her to be a soul winner with you.

In summary, whenever it is evident that a person is ready to make a decision, encourage him/her to make the decision. If you need assistance, ask your pastor or a person experienced in visitation to assist you. If an evangelistic meeting will begin shortly or if the meetings are in progress, simply make a friendly visit and encourage the person to attend the meetings. The evangelist will call for decisions during the meetings.

God will richly bless you in giving Bible studies as you study, pray, work, persevere, and never give up.