---
title: "Personal Delivery"
subtitle: Method 1
---

“This house-to-house labor, searching for souls, hunting for the lost sheep, is the most essential work that can be done.”<sup>1</sup>

This method has stood the test of time. And as an experienced church member recently said, “Door to door work has never been better.” This is where you receive the most interesting experiences and greatest blessings and results. It is also true that you will learn to face rejection. But remember, you are there to find those with whom the Holy Spirit is working. If you spend much of your time with the uninterested it is like picking fruit that is too green to eat.

The best way to do it is to do it. One learns to swim in the water, not by sitting in a classroom.

### General Visitation Principles

1. Dress appropriately.
2. Depend on the Lord. Prepare with prayer, and pray before, during, and after the visit.
3. Make friends. Build bridges, not walls.
4. Always know the objective of the visit. At the first visit to begin Bible studies with a person, the objective would be:
   - a. to be brief,
   - b. begin to establish a friendship,
   - c. get the person to receive and study the lessons,
   - d. gain the right to return,
   - e. not to argue about anything.
5. Know basically what you are going to say
6. There are three things people want to know when one comes to the door:
   - a. Who is it?
   - b. What do they want?
   - c. How long are they going to stay? (You can answer those questions in less than a minute at the door with the following canvass. When you say, “We can’t stay long,” it disarms them and puts them at ease).

Here is a Voice of Prophecy Discover canvass to be used 10 door-to-door to introduce guide #1, or for following up a Bible study request card and other follow-up, as will be discussed later. This canvass can also be adapted to fit whatever study guides are being used. Note: It is best to call them “study guides” and not “lessons.”

### Discover Door to Door Canvass

When someone responds to friendly 4 or 5 business-likeknocks, smile and say:

“It’s great to find you home today. I am [_]() and this is [_](). We are volunteers associated with The Voice of Prophecy radio broadcast. (Name your best-known media organization.)

(Hold the Discover guide before them in one hand and point toward it with the pen in the other hand.)

“We can’t stay long, but we did want to give you your free copy of the new Discover guide, which answers (open the cover and scan with the pen) life’s greatest questions.

(Begin paging through.)

“They are put together beautifully and each section is supported by Bible texts (point).

“[_]() and I enjoyed this so much we just wanted to share it with you.

“When you finish reading these few pages there is a sheet to help you review what you’ve read.

“We want to leave this with you today and we will be back in the area about this time next week. “And if you enjoy it, (this relieves pressure and gives them an out) we’ll leave you another one.

“Are you usually home about this time? Great!

“Be sure to read it and fill out the answer sheet, and we’ll 11

leave you another one next week. If you have any questions we can discuss them. We’ll look forward to seeing you next week at (time).”

### Types of Visits

Here are very brief suggestions for using the above canvass in various types of visits:

1. **Door To Door**: As noted above, be friendly, brief, and positive but give them an out.
2. **A Bible Study Request Card**: Hold up the card and say, “We came in answer to your request.” Try to get a personal study started.
3. **Friends, Family, Work Associates, and Neighbors**: “I enjoyed this, so thought of sharing it with you. I would like your opinion of it.”
4. **Media and Publications**: Take the print-out and say, “I see that you requested _(name of material/s sent) , and we wondered how you enjoyed it/them. Have you taken advantage of the new Discover guides?”
5. **Literature Evangelist Paid-Out Accounts**: Take the print-out and say, “I see that you bought _(name the book/s). Have you enjoyed it/them? Many people who buy these books like to study the Bible itself. You paid for that. This is free.”
6. **Casual Visits**: “Did you get your free copy of _(name study guide)_?” or: “In view of _(current tragic event/s)_, we have a gift for you that we found very helpful.”
7. **Community Services**: “We wondered how you have been doing. We helped you physically. Now we’d like to help you spiritually.”
8. **Missing Members**: Consider why they are missing. Most often they are missing because of hurt feelings.

They need friends and a fresh view of Jesus and His message. It may take several visits to reestablish friendship. Listen, love, care, apologize in behalf of the church, and never argue. Offer study guides when they indicate their interest and need.

### What to Do on the Return Visit/s

Briefly, in all personal delivery, prayer and friendship is the key to success. Try to return weekly for a personal review of the guides. Depending on the degree of interest and the time the student has, this may range from an indepth study where the teacher asks each question and the student reads his/her answer and most of the points are discussed briefly, to only a brief scanning and marking of the guide, with, “You did a great job. Was it all clear? I’m happy you agreed with the last question (the decision question). God bless you. Here are the next two study guides and I’ll see you next week at (time).” Try to get a decision at each visit.

To expand on that, here are some helpful general principles, followed by details on what to say when teaching the Voice of Prophecy Discover guide #1. These could be adapted to fit other study guides as well.

### General Principles

1. Jesus is the center, focus, and essence of every lesson guide. Jesus must also be the center, focus, and essence of your life.
2. Do what the guides do. They lead the student into a living relationship with Jesus. Then they deepen it step-by-step, gently, unobtrusively, introducing His loving will, stressing the blessings and privilege of obeying Him. At an appropriate time, humbly tell of blessings you have received.
3. Prepare to get a total commitment to Jesus as Savior and Lord in guide #6.
4. Don’t argue. Once a student has committed himself to Jesus and doctrinal arguments arise, Jesus is the answer to every argument. Encourage the student to study further what God’s Word/Jesus says about each issue.
5. To be in sync with the message of each guide, reread or scan it before each study and mark the answers in the text. One can highlight them with a yellow marking pen and write the page and paragraph number by the answer. Take this lesson guide along with you to the visit.
6. Move at the student’s pace.
   - a. Constantly listen and watch the eyes and body language.
   - b. Don’t be boring. Make it quick and interesting.
   - c. Build instructions and decisions on his/her understanding and comments.
   - d. Stay on the student’s level. Say, “Let us see what we can learn together.”
7. Ask what they enjoyed most. Ask if the topic is clear to them.
8. Usually a review of the answer sheet can be the basis of the brief discussion. First, glance at the response to the decision question and build your emphasis on it.
9. Try to get a decision in every lesson, but don’t press too hard.
   - a. Constantly build friendship.
   - b. Keep the friendship and the study.
10. To improve accuracy and interest, tactfully help the student find the right answers to incorrect ones, offer to change them, then mark the guide “100%.”
11. To close the study, compliment the student on doing well, and pray; if appropriate. Introduce the next two guides, and say, “I’ll see you at _(time)_.”
12. Depend constantly on the Holy Spirit and prayer. “While we are to labor earnestly for the salvation of the lost, we must also take time for meditation, for prayer, and for the study of the word of God. Only the work accomplished with much prayer, and sanctified by the merit of Christ, will in the end prove to have been efficient for good.”<sup>2</sup>\
“The Lord imparts a fitness for the work to every man and woman who will co-operate with divine power. All the requisite talent, courage, perseverance, faith, and tact will come as they put the armor on.”<sup>3</sup>
13. Expect success and you will have it.

“If the teachers of His Word are willing, the Lord will lead them into close relation with the people. He will guide them into the homes of those who need and desire the truth, bringing them into the situations best suited to their talents.”<sup>4</sup>

“When church members put forth earnest efforts to advance the message, they will live in the joy of the Lord and will meet with success. Triumph always follows decided effort.”<sup>5</sup>

Here is a suggestion for visiting and reviewing Discover guide #1 that could be adapted to other guides as well. Always consider the conditions and the interest level. (Discover has these outlines for all 26 study guides.)

### The Visit to Review Guide #1

**Objective: To be brief; gain the right to return; begin a friendship; and increase faith in God.**

1. “We can’t stay long, but I was wondering how you enjoyed the first Discover guide?
2. “Was there a particular point that you enjoyed the most?”
   - a. It is better to encourage and let the person express satisfaction with the lesson than to talk yourself.
   - b. If the person hesitates, you may say something like:
   - c. “Isn’t it thrilling to know we didn’t just happen?” d. “I liked the idea that God has a personal relationship with people.”
3. Ask, “Was the answer sheet helpful in reviewing what you read?”
   - a. “Do you have it handy?”
   - b. “Perhaps we can compare our answers?” (Don’t force.)
4. Review it briefly, saying: “Excellent” or “Great” after the answers.

Note: If you sense that the person is deeply interested, you could suggest that you will read the question and ask the person to share his/her answers and then discuss them briefly. Usually this practice would come later than guide #1.

5. If there is a wrong answer, tactfully help the student find the right answer and correct it, and then you mark it 100%.
   - a. One could say, “My answer seems to be a little different on this one. Let’s see. (Turn to the marked answer in your own lesson guide.)
   - b. “Did you notice what it says here? Is that clear? Would you like to change that one? Great!”
6. If the “Thought [decision] Question” is answered with, “Yes,” say,
   - a. “I’m happy this study guide helped you to [_]().”
   - b. If the thought question is not answered, ask the question again, but don’t pressure the student.
7. To close, thank the person for the time,
   - a. Introduce guides #2 and #3 and say,
   - b. “I’m looking forward to seeing you again next week at [_]() o’clock.”
   - c. “Have a great week!”

At times, some, even those who have sent in a request card will want to continue by correspondence or the Internet. We will now discuss the second method of the Bible school, correspondence.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Evangelism, page 110.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Desire of Ages, page 362.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> Testimonies, vol. 6, page 332.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>4</sup> Welfare Ministry, page 101.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>5</sup> Testimonies, vol. 7, page 30.