---
title: Time For Children
---

> <p></p>
> “Fathers, do not embitter your children, or they will become discouraged” (Col. 3:21).

I believe there is nothing more annoying to a child than being the orphan of a living father. Yes, do not be surprised by this comment! Listen to this story:

After a very busy day in the office, a father was relaxing. He was comfortably sitting on the living room couch reading the newspaper. In that moment his preteen son enters the room. He touches his father’s shoulders and says: “Dad, dad!”

His father, who could not take his eyes off the newspaper, said: “What do you want son, how much do you want?” The boy replies: “Dad, I do not want money, I want you!”

Similar stories could be shared time and again, but all would have one thing in common. There are countless homes where the father, mother or both are so busy searching for financial or professional success that they do not dedicate time for their children. Many parents believe that financial success would solve their problems.

“Dad, I do not want money, I want you!” That is what many children cry for. We have to understand that there is no time better spent by a father or a mother than that which is dedicated to their children. To answer this cry, it takes planning and willpower from the parents to prioritize the attention their children deserve.

I say planning because parents should put in their daily schedule some time dedicated to their children. This should be something as sacred and important as a job commitment. It is not just the quantity of time you spend either. You must genuine interact with your children in a quality way as well.

It also takes perseverance to make time for children a priority. And remember, it is never too late to dedicate time, love and kindness to your children. At the right time they will return to us everything we have invested in them. They will acknowledge that we gave them something money could not afford – love.

_—Daily Meditations, p. 346_