---
title: Connecting with the Disconnected
---

_Brian Litzenberger_

Why are twenty-first century young people leaving the church? Another just-as-important question is why the unchurched are seemingly unreachable. The traditional church mind-set of expecting young people and unchurched alike to believe as we believe, act as we act, and to become like us is failing miserably. This presentation will discuss the best way to connect with the disconnected and show how important it is to no longer operate under the “this is how we have always done it” ideology.

As I was preparing to present, my wife was challenging me saying, “You need to provide a solution.” To which I replied, “There is no blanket, ‘silver bullet’ solution that will quickly and easily resolve this particular challenge. The solution is connecting with Christ personally and intimately. In other words, the problem today is not programmatic—it is the absence of a personal and intimate relationship with God and others, in that specific order.”

Somehow we have come to confuse knowledge about someone as a relationship. Interestingly enough, this seems to be accepted only in religious circles; when it comes to our relationships on earth, it is a completely different story. I have yet to find an individual that would be willing to let someone else date their beau for them, yet this is what we have come to do with God every week.

The question of why and where our young people are going has become a main topic of discussion. Recently as I was working with a Sabbath School class, I sat down with them and asked them three questions:

#### Question 1: How do you feel when you come to church?

**Answer:** “We feel like people here have written us off.” Upon further explanation, it was discovered that one of the Sabbath School leaders had told the young women attending the Sabbath School that they should plan on being pregnant shortly after they graduate from high school. One of which was my daughter, who asked me, “Dad, is that really what they think of us in church?” To which I replied, “Not in this house!”

Another replied that the church was hypocritical: “We are constantly being told what we need to do and how we are supposed to love and respect others, but we are not treated with love and respect.”

#### Question 2: How do you feel about God and religion?

**Answer:** “It doesn’t really make sense to me.” When I asked them if they shared their doubts and struggles, they quickly replied, “I don’t feel as though I can do that without being judged.” Let me stress that these answers are coming from young people.

“I don’t know; I am always being told what I should believe about God, and how important it is to have a relationship with God, but I don’t see other people able to talk about how their relationship with God has helped them.”

“I don’t know how to relate to the Bible.”

#### Question 3: If you were in charge of your Sabbath School, what would you do differently?

**Answer:** “Food!” Yes, we are definitely dealing with teens! The next answer may surprise you. “We want to be involved in more than just collecting offering. We want to be of service; we want to get into the community and do something. We want to make a difference.”

These are the young people that are leaving the church. The bottom line: their needs aren’t being met. Teenagers have a desire to question. If they do not feel safe enough in church to ask those questions, or if they ask and we can’t answer those questions, where do they go? Google.

The knee-jerk response has typically been to seek out the newest and latest program that will resolve the problem. For example, where I come from there is a new program the conference is promoting and conducting training. It’s called “A New Kind of Leader.” In truth, it is a great concept and program, but it is nothing more than new wine in an old wineskin. Right on the cover of the book it states, “What you believe can make a difference in somebody else.” With young people, it is not about what you believe—it is what they believe and whether or not they have ownership of what they believe. It seems that lay leaders somehow have this idea that we need to give them everything and just tell them what they need to know, molding them into what we believe is the best for them, disregarding whatever does not fit into our vision. Great program, but it is completely missing the mark. It is not a program that listens, understands, empathizes and comforts. It is not meeting the needs of these young people.

Six reasons young people are leaving the church:

1. isolationism
2. shallowness
3. anti-science
4. sex
5. exclusivity
6. doubters

Of these six, the most common ones that I have personally dealt with in my ministry work are:

1. **Shallowness**: Many young people think church is boring, finding it irrelevant. Biblical concepts are unclear, and God is absent from their church experience.

2. **Exclusivity**: Church is exclusive, it does not agree to disagree, and I am forced to choose between my faith and my friends. One person my wife and I have worked with stated, “I feel like church is a private club. If I do not believe exactly as they do in every way, I will never be accepted.”

3. **Doubters**: Young people think church is not a safe place to express doubts. This was just discussed. Many young people both in and out of the church have serious doubts they want to discuss, but they have no one they feel they can trust to talk to.

I would like to point out that these are answers that have come from both young people inside the church as well as the secular community. In fact, many in the secular community have come from a Christian or church background, whether it be Saturday or Sunday. They were raised in a home that attended a weekly service. However, when their stories are told, one finds out they were raised in a home in which their concept of God came from a father who was abusive, beating on them or their mother, maybe even sexually abusing them. Then, come Saturday or Sunday morning, the whole family gets dressed up, drives to church, and presents themselves as the perfect Christian family. While there they are told of a God who is loving, peaceful, compassionate, and kind. The emerging question should be obvious. “If God is loving and caring, why is He allowing this to happen to me?” The end result is an unspeakable animosity, distrust and even hatred toward Christianity and the church in general.

There is another statistic produced by the Barna Group conducted in 2012. Six out of every 10 young people will leave the church permanently, starting at the age of 15. Now, you might say to yourself, “That is in those other churches; we as Adventists don’t have that problem. We have a thriving children’s ministry and teenage program; our teenage classes are packed every week.” In many cases their parents are forcing them to come, and the young people feel as though it is just not worth the argument. But, hey, they are in church, right? Great, they are here. The problem is that they have mentally checked out.

The truth is that they are living my own story. I mentally checked out of church at the age of 15. I went through the motions of being a good Adventist child. I was able to fake it, and as a teen who was successful at faking my faith, I started to wonder how many others were doing the same thing. I guarantee you this is still the case. I have stood up in front of young people after sharing my story and asked, “How many of you feel differently?” Not one young person raised their hand. The fact that these phenomena are occurring makes it more dangerous than if they were to physically be gone. We are lulled into a sense of false security, thinking that everything is OK, and then we are blindsided when our young people disappear.

John 4:35 states, “Look around you and see how the fields are ripe for harvesting” (NRSV). Jesus had to teach this concept to His disciples. Today we have come together because we recognize this fact both in the youth that is leaving our church and our inability to reach out and connect with the unchurched. So it’s not just our young people we can’t connect with— it’s the people outside the church and in the community we are having trouble reaching. “The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few” (Luke 10:2, NRSV). This statement is just as true and applicable today as it was when Christ first came. The following three reasons show these statements to be applicable:

**1. In society today, people need and seek out a satisfying worldview and spiritual fulfillment.**

If you have a hard time understanding this one, go spend some time with people in a secular community. My secular ministry was with bikers, and let me tell you, they are searching . . . and so is everyone else. The social media idea and all the knowledge highway that we have that did not exist when I was growing up has disconnected us from human relationships. People are out there searching for understanding and connection.

This world is getting scary, and people are wondering what in the world is going to happen. Doomsday theories, conspiracy theories, the list goes on and on. The same thing was happening when Jesus arrived on this earth. The Israelites under Roman rule did not feel much different than many today. The people were looking then (as they are today) at what was being offered, and found it to be empty. There had to be something more, they just didn’t know what that something was until Christ appeared.

**2. Many churches fail to gather a harvest because they cannot perceive the harvest.**

Most churches continue “doing church” as usual, assuming that most people in the community are Christians, further assuming that their ministry is merely the nurturing and caring of said Christians. Often church leaders and their members are in denial (or simply choose to ignore) the number of pre-Christians, unchurched Christians, and hurting young people both in the church and in the community. More often than not, many of these do not even know many unchurched people. Another point and problem that remains quietly in the background that should be considered: just because someone is in our church does not mean they are a Christian who has experienced a true conversion.

**3. Christianity has too few laborers to gather the harvest.**

In most traditional churches, including my own, we ask our people to share the good news and invite people to church, or various outreach programs our church is conducting. They either don’t do it, or they go out (that) that day, hand out flyers about the event, return to the church, and are done.

As leaders, we gently push and prod our members to share their faith and invite, but they don’t do it.

We may even provide good evangelism training. Our members take the training, like it, and believe that sharing their faith is important, but they still don’t do it.

There are two main reasons this happens. The first is that many, including I myself at one time, have attempted to labor and have come out of the harvest empty-handed. When my wife and I first started doing the biker ministry, we went out with copies of Steps to Christ, the way I had been taught. I was raised with Ingathering. As a Pathfinder, every year we would go out Ingathering and hand out books. After leaving the church and returning, I went back to my root concept and understanding of evangelism. So we bought a bunch of Steps to Christ books, put our name and contact information inside, and begin handing them out. Ninety-nine percent of the responses were “That’s religion; I don’t want anything to do with it.” This went on for two years, and we finally began to ask ourselves, “What are we doing wrong?” Two years we went through this, and we’re thinking, Wow, what are we doing wrong? At this point many give up in discouragement.

My wife and I were that discouraged; however, rather than give up, we decided to look at Christ’s ministry and emulate whatever we were led to discover. After an inductive look at Christ’s ministry, we decided it was time to get out of God’s way with our own ideas of how to reach people. We decided we were just going to mingle and fellowship without an agenda. Our spiritual agenda became like Christ’s. We met people, built relationships with them, meeting whatever needs they had as best we could. We comforted when the need arose; we laughed and mourned with them. Our new ministry philosophy was affirmed that weekend when God placed a ready soul in our path to be harvested. We prayed through the sinner’s prayer with him as he accepted Christ. God’s Spirit showed up, and let me tell you, that is the most amazing experience my wife and I have ever had.

The second reason for traditional evangelism failure is largely a result of the first: many traditional churches are no longer able to reach, receive, retain, and grow receptive people in their own individual ministry areas.

The root causes are essentially that harvesting and nurturing has changed, and we have no idea how to harvest or nurture the change. So we continue to go with what we know, we attempt to do the same thing, sometimes wrapping it up in a shiny new package. It may work for a moment, but in the very near future, we find it ending in failure. We fail to gather a harvest; sometimes, at a costly expense, we often brutally damage or destroy whatever “sprouts” may be or have been developing. Again, I make this statement based upon personal experience working with people, both young and older, in the secular community as well as our own church youth.

There are several reasons for this occurrence. Christians tend to assume the following:

1. What motivated us will motivate them.
2. The approach that reached me (us) is the approach that will reach them.
3. They already know what we are talking about.
4. Those we are witnessing to will like the church well enough to be able to respond affirmatively to our effort.

Did you notice something interesting? That list of reasons is all about us, isn’t it? Our approach is all what we think should be happening. It isn’t what we think will work—it is allowing God to lead and use us in the way He knows we need to be used. Our evangelism efforts continue to utilize and rely on these traditional approaches, both within our own programs, ministering to our young people, and reaching out to the community. The results of these approaches are yielding declining and/ or completely zero results. Other churches have just given up on these approaches, not bothering to replace them.

At this point the results should come as no surprise. Our own youth, who have grown up in the church, are leaving the church, and a vast majority of churches have not reached or discipled any really unchurched or secular person.

“But our church has grown in membership.” That may very well be; however, is that growth from our witnessing effort, or is it from transfer of memberships from other churches? The final question: How many members are on the books but not seen in church?

Let’s keep it simple and ask, “Is it the goal of a ‘traditional church’ for people to be religious and ‘become like us’?” This includes believing, behaving, having the same experience as we have. With this goal in mind, do we focus mainly on theology and doctrine, handing people the glasses with which to decipher God’s Word the way we think they should decipher it? This does not promote or encourage a personal and intimate relationship with Jesus.

In our ministry efforts and preparations to receive others into our church family, have we stopped to consider just what people, youth, and unchurched may be perceiving when they experience “traditional church”?

The gravitational pull of our human nature is self-serving. It does not look to serve others. Church congregations are made up of humans. Unless a personal and intimate relationship with Jesus is developed, the church as a body will seek to focus on its own needs and wants. Unchurched as well as our youth are seeing the hypocrisy. They are hearing the words, but not seeing the actions. Unless we are willing to be honest about ourselves and our shortcomings, giving up the idea that we need to be the perfect example of Christianity, and begin our walk with Christ at the center of our personal lives, we will never be anything more than Seventh-day Pharisees.

Consider their approach for a moment: “I know the law, and that law is going to make me good enough to get me into a relationship with Christ.” We all know how well that worked out for the Pharisees. Keeping the law was all well and good, but they were not keeping it because of their love for God—they were keeping the law because of their love for themselves.

Our “knee-jerk” solutions to the youth problem in our church have typically been one of the following two. The first is not unfamiliar to me, as it is the same that I experienced growing up: we ignore it. We ignore the situation, hoping that youth and young adults will somehow right themselves when they are older and have their own children. All this advertises to the young people is that leaders, parents, and church members have missed the significance of the times and the needs of the young people, choosing instead to call it a phase they will hopefully grow out of. The truth is that this has been going on a lot longer than many want to admit; the proof of this lies in the fact that we are here having this discussion.

The second “knee-jerk” solution is that we exhaust all efforts to appeal to the teens and young adults. Great, we recognized the need and are addressing the problem. However, this approach excludes the older members and “builds the church on the preferences of the young people, and not on the pursuit of personal and intimate relationship with God. . . . One response I received from parents and a pastor was “Hey, at least they are at church.” The facts of that particular program and philosophy: Two of the girls in this particular Sabbath School became pregnant by two of the boys, and a half dozen others are into drugs and have disappeared.

Let’s continue to be honest: maybe it goes beyond the needs and wants of members; maybe it boils down to preferences. Have any of you ever tried to lead beyond the preferences of the church members? In fact, maybe it is not even the church members, but a specific patriarchal member or the patriarchal member and their following. Here is a result of personal experience.

We were working with a church in California where a singular pastor and I were trying to combat the things we have identified thus far. The church had already completed a health survey and was found to be deficient in all eight areas. I was working with the youth and assisting the pastor. As we began to implement new strategies, our voicemails from a patriarchal member and his following blew up, our e-mails blew up, and we started having meeting after meeting. The church was called into a general session by the head elder; the pastor was seated by himself in front of the church, facing the congregation area, while the rest of the congregation, led by the elders, began to fire accusation after accusation at the pastor. That is how terrible it was. The bottom line is that many feel as if it is their right to have the church fit into their tastes and whims, and the church body as a whole suffers because of it.

Attempting to keep a congregation happy will not work for three primary reasons:

1. This method of Christianity is killing the church.
2. Attendance is stagnating or on the rapid decline as people drift further and further from Christ. In fact, if we are to be completely honest, this is less of practicing Christ’s likeness and more of making the same mistakes the Pharisees did; we are replicating them exactly.
3. It is WRONG! We cannot please everybody in our church, and if we are trying, we are wrong. The bottom line: when our preferences begin causing people to leave the church (the church is the body of Christ, not a building, denomination, or religion) and keeps the unchurched people from the promise of Christ’s free gift of salvation, it is time to change our preferences and make Christ our preference of priority.

My wife and I are both very passionate. She hates the way I drive— she thinks I should be going one direction, which, in her opinion is the better and shorter route between point A and point B. I personally feel it is about the journey, not the destination, and if a wrong turn occurs, not a big deal. She feels it is necessary to criticize and hound me. This at times turns into quite the “discussion.” One particular day this began to occur when something suddenly dawned on me. I simply stated, “Honey, I am not going to argue with an opinion.” I must admit I felt a bit smug because this statement ended the discussion. More important, however, I had discovered a powerful tool in communication and leadership. There is no point in arguing opinions. Arguing in this manner is simply trying to prove that our opinion is more right than the other and that we will do whatever it takes to make sure we convince the other person that we are right.

This correlates directly into our Christian experience, doesn’t it? Some of the most volatile meetings I have ever attended on a regular basis are church board meetings. What a mess. I wonder at times: “Where is Christ in all of this mess?” The apostles warn and encourage us to not be divisive, to be kindhearted, to love and encourage each other . . . and then you sit in a church board meeting and wonder, Are we as Christian brothers and sisters living this concept right now? It’s not like you can stand up and say, “Is Christ in this meeting with us right now, because it certainly doesn’t feel like it.”

So the million-dollar question is What do we do about this? We focus on the fundamentals. At the beginning of a training camp in July of 1961, Vince Lombardi, recognized as one of the greatest football coaches of all time, stood up in front of 38 professional football players. Mr. Lombardi held a football out in front of him and said, “Gentleman, this is a football.”

The Green Bay Packers, having lost a substantial lead and the championship to the Philadelphia Eagles the preceding season, would, six months later, defeat the New York Giants 37-0 to win the NFL championship. They would never again lose another playoff game, and would go on to win five championships in a seven-year period, including three in a row. Vince Lombardi never coached a team with a losing record.

As Christians, what is our fundamental? It is developing our personal and intimate relationship with Christ. It always has been. Christ depended solely on His relationship with God; in turn, He taught His disciples to depend on the same through Him, and then the Holy Spirit. I have to ask (and I am not trying to be antagonistic), When did we lose sight of this fundamental? This is what our primary focus is supposed to be, and it works. Do math Christ’s way: He started with four disciples, then multiplied by three. Then those 12 turned to 120, who were gathered in a room praying. God poured His Spirit out upon them, and 3,000 were added to their number . . . in one day. At the very core of this success was absolute dependence and trust in Christ, letting Him take care of the details. God’s math, God’s work, not ours; I believe that can still happen today if we would simply plug back into what we should be plugged into to begin with.

What is to be gained from focusing on that single fundamental? We will be an open conduit that will allow Christ to use us when and where he knows we need to be used. We will begin to emulate his love and compassion to others. We will begin connecting with them in a way that will attract and not push away.

There are six ways that Jesus connected with people:

1. **Affirmation**—Whenever Jesus approached somebody one-on-one, He affirmed them as a human being.
2. **Acceptance**—He accepted them for where they were at. They did not need to meet a bunch of standards to be accepted by Him. “Come as you are right now; I will make the change.” He appreciated them for who He created them to be, not what they were at that moment.
3. **Appreciation**—He appreciated them for who He created them to be, not where they were at. We see God showing appreciation at Jesus’ baptism: “This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased” (Matthew 3:17, NKJV). A paraphrase of Paul’s letter to the Romans is “I love you; here’s what I appreciate about you . . .” Paul goes on to list that the whole world is talking about you. As a sports coach, we would call this a positive coaching method. When we affirm the positive, we spend a whole lot less time having to correct the negative.
4. **Affection**—Appropriate affection. Every single time Christ was one on one with somebody, there was a physical touch involved. He knelt down with a leper. He helped him up, He put sod on the eyes, He put a child on His lap, there was always affection and always physical touch. In a world today that is starving for affection, people are finding it in very unhealthy and negative ways, seeking out physical forms of affection that provide a fleeting moment of euphoria and pleasure, as opposed to a long-term love relationship with Christ and His body (the church). This is where our young people are going, they are looking to fill a God-shaped hole that they don’t know how to fill. So they are seeking anything and everything they can to fill it. Only to find more emptiness.
5. **Availability**—Christ always made Himself available. Nicodemus, the rich young ruler, the children, the Samaritan woman at the well—the list goes on and on. In working with alcoholics and addicts who are recovering, one never knows when they will need support. Our phone has rung at 2:00 in the morning. My wife would roll over and say, “I will go put a pot of coffee on.” I would then spend the next two plus hours talking to someone because they were in crisis and wanted to go drink.
6. **Accountability**—So then each of us shall give an account of himself to God. This is so important. What exactly are we going to be held accountable to? Whether or not we have a personal and intimate relationship with Christ. Remember what Christ said, “I am not going to know you if you don’t know Me. If you haven’t spent the time to get to know Me I don’t know you.” It is not through anybody else. Abraham had a covenant with God, then God had to make a covenant with Isaac, and then Jacob. Why? Because it is not transferable() . . . it is individual.

This is the core fundamental that we need to return to. Back to basics for Christians is not a football, but Christ. The previous presentation was on stewardship. As the presenter was speaking, I was thinking, We could have done this together. Most people hear the word “stewardship” and immediately think of money. We are stewards of time, we are stewards of people and how we relate to them, and we are accountable. If God were to audit our stewardship of His creation and desire for all to know Him, what would those results be?

Are we truly caring for people? The only way to unselfishly and truly care for people is to connect with Christ personally and intimately. Only then will we be able to start looking at others and seeing them the way God sees them. We have to connect with Him.

We can have all the programs in the world, and they will do no good. Nothing is going to happen, because it is something we are attempting to do, not something that we are living . . . and that is the difference.

_A military veteran of 10 years, Brian Litzenberger served in the United States Army and the United States Coast Guard. While serving in the Army, he was trained as a recruiting and retention NCO. Honorably discharged in 2001, Litzenberger spent the next few years working in public safety. He is a certified EMT and worked in that field for four years. Over the years, Litzenberger has volunteered his time to Pathfinders, Cub Scouts, and coaching youth sports: volleyball and lacrosse. Brian Litzenberger and his wife have been ministering in the secular community of alcoholics and addicts for 20 years. They founded a motorcycle club that was focused on introducing Christ into the 12 steps of Alcoholics Anonymous. Currently he works with the pastor of his local church in developing a small-group ministry and teaching the youth Sabbath School. Litzenberger has been asked, on several occasions, to speak at conference Pathfinder events and local churches. He holds a bachelor’s degree in interdisciplinary studies, with an emphasis in religion, criminal justice, and psychology, and is currently working on his master’s degree in pastoral ministry._