---
title: The Family's Watchman
date: 05/12/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> (Ezek 33:7 NKJV) "So you, son of man: I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel; therefore you shall hear a word from My mouth and warn them for Me.

### Observation

Ezekiel speaks of the responsibility he, as God’s spokesman, bears to warn the people of both upcoming danger and also of their current condition as “wicked” and the results if they continue living in sin.

### Application

Parents have a unique perspective over their children because they have lived longer, experienced more, and hopefully learned from their own experience so they can see what their children are doing and where their steps may lead them. While children don’t want to hear those words from their parents, it is true that “I’ve been there” can be a wealth of experience that their children can benefit from.

This text reminds us as parents that we need to be responsible watchmen for our families in the two ways Ezekiel was to play that role:

1. Guidance for the Future. Planing for the future, preparing children for what is to come, helping them to plan for the future – all these are the responsibility of each parent from before the children are born and throughout their life.

2. Guidance for the Present. While children will complain that we are nagging them, we cannot neglect the responsibility to guide them and help them to live lives based on God’s principles as outlined in His word. Obviously I would not recommend nagging your children but rather leading them by example. And yet, do not fail to warn them and help them so they may make changes in their life rather than perish in their sin.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, help us to be faithful watchmen for our children.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._