---
title: Jesus and His Methods in Brief
---

Before we proceed to an in-depth study of theory and methods we must remember Jesus and His tremendous love. He said, “I have loved thee with an everlasting love: therefore with loving kindness have I drawn thee” (Jeremiah 31:3). Nothing draws like the love of Jesus. If your student understands clearly that his/her Creator loved him/her individually so much that He would have left heaven, with the adoration of the entire universe, come to this dark world and died for him/her alone, there is nothing greater than this to draw your student to a decision.

Jesus said, “And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me” (John 12:32). The whole universe is drawn toward decision when we lift up Jesus. In gaining decisions there is nothing needed more than His love for each person we are endeavoring to draw to Him. The exciting fact is that the same love is ours for the asking: “Christ will impart to his messengers the same yearning love that He Himself has in seeking for the lost.”<sup>17</sup> We only need ask for it.

Jesus is also our example in gaining decisions. Let’s ponder the relationship we need with Him, His methods, and what we can learn from them:

Jesus made the mind. He understands how it works and how to reach it. Only He really understands how people make decisions. His Word has the most effective decision- making principles embedded in it. He says “Follow me” (Matthew 4:19).

How did Jesus work with people? “The Saviour mingled with men as one who desired their good. He showed His sympathy for them, ministered to their needs, and won their confidence. Then He bade them, ‘Follow Me.’”<sup>18</sup> People decided because of what He said and Who He was. It was not knowledge and facts alone, but His personal relationship and identification with them that caused them to decide. He won their hearts as well as their minds.

Persuasion results from both logos (knowledge) and ethos (feelings) toward the presenter of facts. We must repeat what was stated above: _It is not only what we say that counts, but how we say it and when we say it_. There must be the right word in the right way at the right time—a “word in season.” This is accomplished through daily communion with the God of the mind: “The Lord God hath given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season . . . : he wakeneth morning by morning, he wakeneth mine ear to hear as the learned” (Isaiah 50:4). This daily communion enables one to speak the truth in love (Ephesians 4:15) at the pace at which the learner can respond. What is needed is loving people presenting the whole beautiful truth at the rate the student is able and willing to digest it and accept it.

Decisions for Christ are rooted in deep interpersonal relationships. The deeper the relationship and the greater the confidence in the presenter, the more effective the appeal.

All you are, all you say, and all you do affect the student’s acceptance or rejection.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>17</sup> Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 235.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>18</sup> The Ministry of Healing, p. 143.