---
title: Lost Children Or Lost Parents?
---

> <p></p>
> “Then they brought little children to Him, that He might touch them; but the disciples rebuked those who brought them. But when Jesus saw it, He was greatly displeased and said to them, ‘Let the little children come to Me, and do not forbid them; for of such is the kingdom of God’” (Mark 10:13, 14, NKJV).

In a big supermarket a PA system once made this interesting announcement: “We have at the front desk a little boy who says that his father is lost and cannot find him.”

There is another story of a couple who noticed one morning that their little boy was missing from home. The parents were frantic as they searched for him. They informed their neighbors and friends and the police to help search for the children. Every home in the neighborhood was searched. Fields and woods were searched. They could not find one trace of the little boy.

On this particular morning, a morning in which the family typically left home together and attended a meeting, someone suggested they search at this meeting place. Sure enough, there sat the boy quietly holding a small toy in his hands that he brought from home. The parents hugged him and felt greatly relieved. The mother, wiping tears from her eyes, exclaimed, “My precious little son, you were lost and now you are found!”

The little boy looked at his mother and replied, “Mother, I was not lost. I was at church.”

These two stories speak more about lost parents than about lost children.

Every child, in their innocence and purity, has the natural desire to be with God. Many times the parents and adults cut off the child’s spiri tual development when they do not permit them develop their desire to follow Jesus.

Perhaps that was why Jesus was unhappy His disciples stopped the children: “When Jesus saw this, he was indignant. He said to them, Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these” (Mark 10:14). Let us think seriously about this warning!

_—Daily Meditations, p. 165_