---
title: Mi-Yattan
---

Most languages come sprinkled with idioms, such as (in English) “not know jack,” or “a lame duck,” or “to be on cloud nine,” whose meanings are not literally, or even logically, deduced from the phrases themselves. (To “not know jack” has nothing to do with a man named Jack, but refers to having no knowledge at all of a specific situation.)

Biblical Hebrew itself has idioms; one is mi-yittan, which literally means “Who will give?” However, it’s used idiomatically to express something else. After their escape from Egypt, the children of Israel, facing challenges in the wilderness, exclaimed, “If only we had died by the Lord’s hand in Egypt!” (Exodus 16:3, NIV). The phrase “if only” came from mi-yittan. In Psalm 14:7 David utters, “Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion!” (KJV). The Hebrew doesn’t say, “Oh”; it says, mi-yittan, “Who will give?” In Job 6:8, when Job exclaims, “Oh, that I might have my request,” “Oh” is translated, rather poorly, from mi-yittan.

In all these cases, mi-yittan expresses the idea of frailty and weakness in the face of events that the people cannot control as they would wish. Overcome by the sufferings that had so quickly choked but not strangled him, Job wished, “Oh, that I might have my request”—which is that God would have “cut me off ” (Job 6:9, KJV); that is, let him die and be free from his trials. But God didn’t, and his cry mi-yittan, “Who will give?” expresses the unfulfilled wish that God would.

Another occurrence appears in Deuteronomy 5:29. Going over the history of God’s providences, Moses reminds the children of Israel about their request that he, Moses, talk to the Lord for them lest they die. According to Moses, the Lord, pleased with their request, then said: “Oh that there were such a heart in them, that they would fear me, and keep all my commandments always” (KJV). The word translated “Oh”? Mi-yittan.

Mi-yittan? Here is the Lord—the Creator God, the one who made space, time, and matter and energy, the one who spoke our world into existence, the one who breathed into Adam the breath of life—here is the Sovereign God Himself uttering a phrase associated with the weaknesses and limitations of humanity? Talk about the reality of free will. Talk about the limits of what God can do in the midst of the great controversy. This use of mi-yittan reveals that even God can’t trample on free will (for the moment He did, it would no longer be free).

What’s fascinating, too, is the context. The Lord wishes, mi-yittan, that His people would have such a heart as to fear Him. To fear God? Can’t God easily make people fear Him, as in being scared of Him? At Mount Sinai, for instance, with the giving of the Ten Commandments, what happened? “When the people heard the thunder and the loud blast of the ram’s horn, and when they saw the flashes of lightning and the smoke billowing from the mountain, they stood at a distance, trembling with fear. And they said to Moses, ‘You speak to us, and we will listen. But don’t let God speak directly to us, or we will die!’ ” (Exodus 20:19, NLT). Trembling in fear before God? The God who can open up and swallow people alive (Numbers 16:32) or bring fire down from heaven that burns up not just animal sacrifices but also “the wood and the stones and the dust” (1 Kings 18:38)? “And it licked up the water that was in the trench” (verse 38). This is a God who, if He chose to, could scare the daylights out of any of us (to use an English idiom). God cannot force people to love Him without destroying what love is, but God could easily force people to fear Him without destroying what fear is. If not free, we could not love God, but, free or not free, we could certainly cower in dreadful terror before Him.

Yet that’s not the kind of fear that God wants from us. Look at the following texts, all about fearing God; look, too, at the positive, uplifting implications that come from fearing God. “Afterward the children of Israel shall return and seek the Lord their God and David their king. They shall fear the Lord and His goodness in the latter days” (Hosea 3:5). “The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge” (Proverbs 1:7). “The eye of the Lord is on those who fear Him” (Psalm 33:18). “There is no want to those who fear Him” (Psalm 34:9). “He will bless those who fear the Lord” (Psalm 115:13). “He fulfills the desires of those who fear Him” (Psalm 145:19, NIV). “Therefore, having these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God” (2 Corinthians 7:1). “Honor all people. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king” (1 Peter 2:17).

And then, too, there’s the first angel. After we’re told that this angel is proclaiming the everlasting gospel to all the world, the angel begins that proclamation with a loud voice, declaring, “Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come; and worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water” (Revelation 14:7). The first words out of his mouth are to “fear God.” If that does not mean to be scared of Him, as you might be scared of a machine gun-toting, deranged psychotic rampaging through your neighborhood, what does it mean? And why would the first words spoken by an angel proclaiming the great news of Christ’s death for us, the everlasting gospel—why would those first words be to “fear God”?