---
title: Sabbath Afternoon
---

#### Introduction

During the last four weeks we have explored together basic ingredients of the discipleship journey with God. By this time, we have reviewed and affirmed our assurance of salvation. We have accepted Jesus as Lord of our lives. And we have begun to understand the wondrous truth of the indwelling Christ. These are all foundational to our spiritual journey with God.

This week, we will explore an area that is just as critical to our ongoing spiritual growth. God calls us to share what we are experiencing with others around us. They need to see Jesus. We need to share Jesus. We will continue to grow only as we focus outwardly. If we do not share what Christ is doing for us, we become like a stagnant pool losing its freshness and vitality. Thus it is important that we understand just what it is that God asks of us.

All around us people are hungering to know God. He has given to us the awesome privilege of being part of the salvation process. When Jesus first invited His disciples to follow Him, He promised that they would become “fishers of men.” In other words, we are the tools God uses to reach people around us. It is our task to help others know Jesus just as we know Him.

The most powerful tool in the witnessing process is the story of what God has done for us. Our personal testimony of what Christ has done for us has the ability to be used by God to draw others to Him. It really is not as difficult as we have thought. We don’t have to be able to answer all the questions people may ask. We can simply say, “I don’t know the answer. But I will find an answer for you.” All we need to do is to simply tell our story. Our greatest witness is the story of what Jesus has done for us.

Because we have experienced salvation, we have something to tell. Because we have accepted Jesus as Lord, we can help someone else accept Him too. Because we are experiencing the presence of God, we can help someone else find God also. In other words, the source of our witnessing is simply sharing our personal experience. What power there is in that sharing! Jesus promised that the uplifted Christ would draw others to Him.

Pause and think for a few minutes. Who has God placed around you that needs to experience what you have found? Who are the family or friends around you who have never known Jesus? Who are the people around you who are spiritually hungering? Now stop and think again. What do you have to share? Is it some doctrine or is it a growing relationship with Jesus? How can you tell them what you have experienced?

We need to catch a vision of just how much we really do have to share. Christ is real in our lives. We are growing in Him. He is changing us—making us more like Him. Out of this experience, we can tell others the simple truth of what God has done for us.

#### Objectives For This Week

This week’s objectives for our study include the following:

- To understand the power of witnessing.
- To recognize that we are each called to the ministry of sharing Jesus with others.
- To commit ourselves to share where and when God provides opportunity.
- To prayerfully identify those God brings to us to learn about Jesus.

#### Holy Habit—Spiritual Journaling

Throughout the last four weeks of this study, we have had opportunity to reflect and write our thoughts about different passages as well as our own spiritual journey. In a sense, we have already begun to use elements of the spiritual discipline or Holy Habit of spiritual journaling. Now we want to understand this skill better in order to be more intentional in its use.

Spiritual journaling is the practice of maintaining a spiritual diary. Its purpose is to provide regular and systematic reflection on our walk with God, and a record of that walk and reflection. It helps us in two ways:

1. Journaling provides systematic reflection on God and our relationship with Him. Writing down what God has done for us and our thoughts about our journey with Him helps strengthen that journey.
2. Journaling also provides a review of how God has worked in our lives. Later, as we read our reflections, we are reminded of just how much God really is doing in our lives.

While there is no single way to journal, there are some hints which might be helpful in using a journal:

- Use a journal notebook or a computer file. For some, the act of physically writing our thoughts down on paper is helpful. For others, a computer is easier.
- Reflect on key points from our devotional time. This can include new insights from Scripture, impressions from God, or expressions of gratitude and praise to God. It can also include Bible passages which have been especially meaningful and why.
- Reflect on how God is working in your lives. We can make notes on different ways in which we see God at work, and how He is changing our lives.
- Write out some of our prayers or record answered prayers. This can be a special source of strength later on when we come back and review the journal.
- Record special experiences with God or events that have a meaningful impact on our spiritual journey.

Spiritual journaling is one of the powerful tools that helps shape our lives to be more like Jesus. We need to try this skill for several weeks and see how it works for us. It is not necessary to do it every day, but it is helpful if we do it two to four times a week.

#### Suggested Prayer

Here is a suggested prayer as we begin this week of our Steps to Discipleship study process:

_Dear Loving Father, I come to you today recognizing the wonder of your love and grace. You are changing my life, and I praise you for it. As I experience your power in my life, I recognize I need to share it with others. Yet I am afraid. I don’t know where to start. So be with me. Give me courage and lead me to someone with whom you want me to share your love. Help me be aware of those around me who are ready to hear about you. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

List below three things you want to accomplish in your discipleship walk with God this week:

`1.`

`2.`

`3.`