---
title: Sunday
---

#### Today’s Objective

The purpose of our study today is to help us understand that people around us are spiritually hungry. They want to know God and are searching. That search is real, though it may not always be in the right place. God is working to meet them—usually through someone who has already experienced His grace.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear God, Help me to know you better today. Teach me your grace once again. Help me to be sensitive to those around me who hunger for You. Teach me to share what you have given me. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse

This week we start memorizing memory verse #9. Once again, we will need to follow the process for memorization which we have used during the last four weeks.

> 2 Corinthians 5:18-19 (NIV)—”All this is from God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation: that God was reconciling the world to himself in Christ, not counting men’s sins against them. And he has committed to us the message of reconciliation.”

> 2 Corinthians 5:18-19 (KJV)—”And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation; To wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them; and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation.”

#### Memory Verse Review

We also want to review two verses today. The first is verse #2 (Psalm 34:8) and the second is #8 from last week (2 Peter 1:3-4). Use the cards to help you.

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now it is time to go back to our Bibles and explore what God has to say about helping people know Him.

`Read the story of Cornelius in acts 10. Notice the key points that stand out in this story for you:`

`Continue to reflect on the story of Cornelius. What points from this story point out that Cornelius was searching for something more in his spiritual journey?`

`What does this story tells us about what our attitude toward others can be?`

`Read Luke 10:1-12—Who has the responsibility of providing more workers in the spiritual harvest field? What is our role according to this passage?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Dear Lord, Help me understand that there are people all around me who are hungering to know God. Help me be sensitive to their needs. Give me courage; give me the words to share at the right time. In Jesus’ name, Amen._