---
title: Monday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our objective for today is to understand the power of a life transformed by Jesus. We also want to see how Jesus worked with people who were hungry to know God.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Almighty God, You have touched my life in marvelous ways. I am experiencing your love and grace. Help me know how to extend them to others. Help me see that the greatest witness I can be is my own life touched by God. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Today we will review two memory verses, #6 (Matthew 11:28-30) from our third week, and #9 (2 Corinthians 5:18-19) from yesterday. Take a few minutes and reflect on these passages.

`What do they tell us about what God has done for us?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Once more we go to Scripture to study and reflect. Let’s ask God to guide our hearts and minds as we explore His Word.

`Read the story of Jesus and the Samaritan woman in John 4:1-42. We want to look at this story again. What are the key points you notice about how Jesus worked with this woman?`

`Continue to reflect on the story of the Samaritan woman. What triggered her hunger to know more?`

`Notice verses 28-30—What do you think drove her to go back to her village and tell her story?`

`Notice verse 42—What do you think led the villagers to believe?`

`Read Luke 12:8-9—Why is it important that we acknowledge who God is in our lives, and that we share that information with others?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Dear Lord, Help me see people around me the way Jesus did. Help me to be sensitive to their need. Help me know how to share what Christ has done for me? In Jesus’ name, Amen._