---
title: Tuesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our objective today is to understand the power of the invitation to “Come and see.” Each person must have a first-hand experience with God.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear God of Love, Help me understand that you are already at work in the lives of people around me. Help me know when and how to share your love. Lead me to those who are hungering to know you and teach me to share what you have done for me. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Our verse to review today is #9 (2 Corinthians 5:18-19). Let’s review it with our memory verse card.

`Reflect on why we are given the ministry of sharing Jesus with those around us:`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Scripture once again will guide our study as to how to share our faith with those around us.

`Read the Parable of the Sower in Mark 4:1-20. What are the key points from this parable that help us know how to witness? What is the role of the sower who spreads the seed? How does this compare to our role?`

`Read the story in John 1:35-50. Who did Andrew and Philip invite to know Jesus? What was the power of their invitations?`

`Why do you think they wanted to invite someone else to know Jesus?`

`Read John 12:20-26—What were the roles and responsibilities of Philip and Andrew in this story? What does the metaphor of the kernel of wheat tell us about what must happen to us? How would this impact our ability to share Jesus with those around us?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Father in Heaven, Teach me to trust you to do your part. Help me to know that my role is to share what I have experienced. It is your responsibility to make the seed grow. My responsibility is simply to cast it out or share it with those around me. Help me know how. In Jesus’ name, Amen._