---
title: Wednesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Understanding our task in witnessing, or telling what Jesus has done for us, is our objective for today. It really is about God and not about us. The real focus is on preaching Jesus Christ as Lord.

#### Invitation Prayer

_God of Wonder and Grace, I come to you today aware of how blessed I am. You have saved me and invited me to share in the ministry of helping others find you. Teach me to focus on Jesus. Help me make Him real in my life. Help me understand that because I know you, I can share you with others. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse

Today we start memorizing verse #10. By now, we are familiar with our method of memorization and review. Let’s remember that it is important to reflect or meditate on the passage throughout the day. Our goal is to move beyond simply memorizing the passage. We want to make it part of our lives.

> 1 Peter 3:15 (NIV)—“But in your hearts set apart Christ as Lord. Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect . . .”

> 1 Peter 3:15 (KJV)—“But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts: and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear . . .”

#### Memory Verse Review

Today we review memory verses #3 (Ephesians 2:8-9) from our second week, and #7 (Ezekiel 36:26-27). Spend a few minutes thinking about how these passages have helped us during the last several weeks:

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

It is time to let God speak to our hearts and minds as we open His Word. We especially want

`Read Matthew 4:18-22 and 28:18-20—What do these verses tell us about our task as disciples of Jesus Christ?`

`Read and reflect on 1 Peter 3:15-16—What is “the reason for the hope” we have? Is it information or what?`

`Read 2 Corinthians 4:1-15—What does this passage tell us about our task? What key points from these verses can help us as we work with others?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Dear Lord, Help me today to accept the task you have given me. Help me realize it is really more about you than about me. Teach me that the real power for witnessing is the story of Jesus and what He has done for me. Lead me to the person with whom you want me to share. In Jesus’ name, Amen._