---
title: Thursday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our objective for today is to go deeper in understanding the ministry that God has given to us. We want to see that this ministry is at the core of our identity as Christians.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Loving Father, Help me to experience the fullness of your love today. Help me know just how much you have given to me in Jesus Christ. Lead me to accept the privilege of ministry in your name and in partnership with you. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Our verses for review today are #9 (2 Corinthians 5:18-19) and #10 (1 Peter 3:15).

`Spend a few minutes reflecting on what God has given us that is the foundation of what we have to share:`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

It is now time to open our Bibles and spend time in study and reflection on the real meaning of the ministry God has given us.

`Read Acts 5:40-42—What gave the apostles the strength to witness in the face of opposition and even abuse? What was the essence of their ministry?`

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:14-21—This passage is the clearest presentation of our identity and role as Christians when it comes to ministry. What key points from this passage speak to you?`

`Where does reconciliation begin? What do the phrases “ministry of reconciliation” and “message of reconciliation” mean to you?`

`Read 2 tiMotHy 2:1-2—What does this passage tell us about sharing what we have received, and how far will that sharing go?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Loving God, You have reconciled me and brought me to your love. Help me have the courage to share that love with others. Teach me that I can share what I have experienced—that because I know you, I can help someone else know you too. In Jesus’ name, Amen._