---
title: Friday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our objective for today is to explore the simplicity of and power for sharing. We want to realize that it is not about sharing information, but instead, it is about sharing what Christ has done for us.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Lord of Love, Help me remember just how much you have done for me. Teach me that because I know and love you, I can share you with someone around me today. Let your Word speak to my heart today. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Our memory verse for review today is #10 (1 Peter 3:15).

`Spend a few minutes reflecting on how you can “set Jesus apart as Lord” in your life today:`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

It is now time to go back to the Bible and explore the power and essence of witnessing.

`Read Mark 5:1-20—Put yourself in the place of this man. How would you describe his experience in your own words? What did Jesus ask him to share with others? What gave his message power?`

`Read the story in Acts 8:26-40—What lessons can we learn from this story? How far is God willing to go to help someone know Him? How far is God willing to go to help us minister for Him?`

`Read 1 Corinthians 9:16-23—What principles for witnessing can we gain from this passage?`

`How can you relate to those around you so that you build a relationship where you can share what Jesus has done for you?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Dear Father in Heaven, Help me remember how much you have done for me. Help me know who around me needs to hear what you have done for me. Help me live in your presence today and give me the courage to share. In Jesus’ name, Amen._