---
title: "Marriage and Family: Biblical and Sociocultural Perspectives"
---

_By Boubakar Sanou_

Marriage finds its origins in God’s creative plan and purpose for humanity. As a divine gift to humanity, marriage exists in diverse forms in societies around the world. This chapter examines Genesis 1-3 to highlight God’s original intention for marriage and subsequently explores how societal norms shape the perception and practice of marriage. The objective is to emphasize that despite societal trends and shifting influences, God’s fundamental purpose for marriage offers a steadfast compass to couples seeking to build healthy, fulfilling, and God-honoring relationships.

### Marriage: The Biblical Foundation

The account of Creation in Genesis 1-3 is central to a biblical understanding of marriage. Genesis 1:26-28 states that God created humankind in His image as male and female, blessed them and commanded them to be fruitful and multiply, to fill and subdue the earth. This text highlights three important things about marriage. First, the marriage institution exists as a pre-Fall design of God, in which human sexuality in the context of the biblical framework for marriage is a divine arrangement. Second, Adam and Eve’s creation in God’s image confers to each of them equal status within the marital relationship regardless of their physical differences. Third, because the command to fill the earth requires conceiving children, it indicates that God strictly designed marriage for heterosexual relationships, making the sexual distinction between male and female fundamental to what God intends marriage to be. However, it is important to note that while procreation is emphasized in this passage, marriage is not solely about childbearing. Childless couples can still have a valid and fulfilling union in God’s eyes (Walton, 2001, p. 187; Clark, 1995, p. 29).

Genesis 2:18 introduces a second important fact about marriage: the creation of a _suitable helper_ (_‘ēzer kēnegdô_) for Adam. The word “helper” (_‘ēzer_) is most often used for God’s act of deliverance (e.g., Exodus 18:4b; Deuteronomy 33:7; 29a; Psalm 33:20; 115:9- 11;121:1-2; 124:8; 146:5) (Walton, 2001, p. 176; Doukhan, 2014, p. 80). The additional term “_kēnegdô_” (equivalent, counterpart) clarifies the nature of this help. It suggests a position of equality, someone who corresponds to Adam, his “vis-à-vis” or “counterpart” (Badenas, 2015, p. 77). It emphasizes Eve’s importance as an indispensable partner in fulfilling all the stewardship responsibilities God delegated to them, not subordination to Adam. Both were created in God’s image, making their shared humanity more important than their differing sexes. The focus is on their fundamental equality, companionship, and mutual support. As both Adam and Eve were fully and equally made in the image of God, they were created to rule over the rest of creation rather than over each other (Allender and Longman, 1995, p. 20). An appropriate way to describe this pre-Fall symbiotic relationship would be to say that “Eve was created from a rib taken from the side of Adam, signifying that she was not to control him as the head, nor to be trampled under his feet as an inferior, but to stand by his side as an equal, to be loved and protected by him” (White, 1890, p. 46).

Adam’s exultation at the sight of Eve, his suitable helper, in Genesis 2:23, as opposed to when animals were introduced to him in Genesis 2:20b, has important implications for mate selection. It communicates both his affirmation of the unique compatibility between him and her and his commitment to her. He acknowledges that Eve is the one who will meet his needs; the one who will make him complete. Adam’s jubilant exclamation speaks not only about his free consent to the arrangement but also about his captivation with and love for Eve. It has been suggested that “just as this freedom was essential in the garden, so it is crucial in all succeeding sexual relationships” (Davidson, 2014, p. 43).

Genesis 2:24 offers another cornerstone for understanding marriage. It emphasizes three key principles that guide couples toward a strong and lasting union—leaving, clinging, and becoming one flesh. The act of “leaving” one’s parents does not suggest complete separation but a shift in priorities, where the newly formed marital bond takes precedence. This establishes a sense of independence for the spouses, allowing them to build their own family identity. Importantly, this “leaving” also involves a public declaration of the marriage covenant, witnessed by family and signifying the broader social and communal dimensions of marriage (Hasel, 2015, p. 30; Davidson, 2007, pp. 43, 44).

The emphasis on “clinging” to one’s wife underscores the importance of a strong and personal attachment between spouses. This attachment, described with a covenant term, reflects the permanent and exclusive nature of the marriage bond, replacing the previous attachment to parents (Doukhan, 2014, p. 85; Davidson, 2007, p. 45). Jesus Himself referenced this verse to affirm marriage as a permanent union, with exceptions for specific circumstances (e.g., Matt 19:9).

The concept of “becoming one flesh” signifies a harmonious union that encompasses physical, emotional, spiritual, and economic aspects of the couple’s lives. Mutual submission between husband and wife is crucial for achieving this harmony (see Ephesians 5:21). While Adam and Eve’s “one flesh” state was unique due to their creation, other couples achieve this oneness through intentional effort and dedication. The experience of becoming one flesh requires a commitment not just to each other but also to the relationship itself, to the institution of marriage, and ultimately to God, who established it. Supportive social systems are also essential elements for a thriving marriage (Balswick and Balswick, 2014, p. 90; Rock, 2000, p. 732; Lawler, 2007, pp. 9-10).

The account of Genesis 3 is a post-Fall account. Part of its focus (Gen 3:16b) is on the negative impact of sin on the marriage institution. Genesis 3:16b, “Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you,” has often been interpreted to justify or advocate for the subordination of wives to their husbands. However, this was not part of God’s plan for marriage since the idea of the subordination of Eve to Adam was neither mentioned nor implied prior to sin (Doukhan 2014, p. 105; Davidson, 2007, p. 65). Therefore, rather than being prescriptive and normative, Genesis 3:16 “describes what will happen, not what ought to happen. ... [The] ruling domination by husband over wife is not some divine pattern to implement, but a forecast of the negative consequences of sin” (Clark, 1995, p. 8). The Fall damaged the egalitarian and harmonious relationship that existed between Adam and Eve as part of God’s ideal for marriage. Thus, instead of imposing a condition on Adam and Eve, Genesis 3:16 describes a forthcoming new reality in their relationship as one of the inevitable consequences of their sin. However, with the substitutionary death of Jesus predicted in Genesis 3:15, the reversal of the fallen order of Creation has started its course. As a result, the outworking of divine grace and transformation can avert this tragedy to marriage through a gradual return to the pre-Fall egalitarian relationship between husband and wife (Wilkins, 2004, p. 644; Davidson, 2007, p. 76; Doukhan 2014, p. 105).

The concept of headship in the scriptural injunction, “Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord. For the husband is head of the wife, as also Christ is head of the church; and He is the Savior of the body. Therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything” (Eph 5:22-24) and “I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ, the head of woman is man, and the head of Christ is God” (1 Cor 11:3) has been historically used to support and even justify male superiority in marriage. in light of Genesis 1:26-28 and 2:18-24, Ephesians 5:22-24 indicates male leadership rather than male superiority in marriage. Calvin Rock points out that “if there is to be found significance of function in Adam’s primacy in the Creation order, it is that of caretaker or servant. He was created first as forerunner or guardian of the being who would follow. . . Leadership should be viewed not as a privileged superiority but as solemn, sacrificial responsibility” (2000, p. 733). Defending male superiority in marriage based on Ephesians 5:22-24 is also inconsistent with Ephesians 5:21, where Paul appeals to all the Ephesian believers to submit themselves “to one another in the fear of God.” The specific appeal of Ephesians 5:22-24 is that “the spirit that Christ manifests toward the church is the spirit that husband and wife are to manifest toward each other” (White, 1902, p. 46).

### Sociocultural Perspectives on Marriage

#### Common Types of Marriage

Although the institution of marriage exists in some form in every human society, its practices, forms, and accompanying rituals vary from one context to another. There are typically three common types of marriage: civil marriage, church marriage, and customary marriage.

#### Civil Marriage

A civil marriage is a legal contract between two partners, recognized and officiated by a government official in a non-religious ceremony. Since the government regulates civil marriage laws, it becomes a party to any marriage under its jurisdiction. Depending on the specific legislation, civil marriage ceremonies can be conducted for both monogamous, polygynous, polyandrous, heterosexual, or homosexual couples.

in light of the Creation account, homosexual, polygynous, and polyandrous marriages are not in conformity with God’s design for marriage. Because God created only one woman, not several women or another man, as a suitable helper for Adam, Genesis 2:24 affirms heterosexual monogamy as God’s design for marriage. Although, as a Church, we recognize civil marriage as an official form of marriage, we do not recognize forms of civil marriage that are opposed to scriptural principles regulating how marriage should be entered into. From the same perspective, the Church does not recognize a divorce pronounced by a government or a state if that pronouncement does not follow biblical principles (The Seventh-day Adventist Church Manual, 2016, pp. 62, 157-160).

#### Church Marriage

A church marriage is a wedding ceremony led by a religious official authorized by the church to marry couples. in some countries, such a wedding is recognized by the state, eliminating the need for a separate civil ceremony. in other countries, church weddings are not legally recognized. in these cases, a civil ceremony is mandatory before the religious ceremony takes place. Although a civil marriage, at which a state representative endowed with legal authority officiates, is not prohibited by the Seventh-day Adventist Church, “it has been a historic tradition and a recommended practice of the church that Christian couples getting married have a church wedding” (Edwards, 1994, p. 22).

There are compelling biblical reasons for Adventist couples to opt for a church wedding. First, Genesis 1:26-28 and 2:18-24 establish marriage as a foundational paradigm within the order of Creation, emphasizing the covenantal nature of the union between the couple and God, reflecting the permanence and sacredness of their union. Second, choosing a religious service for marriage acknowledges the divine blessing necessary for a marriage to thrive. It signifies the couple’s dependence on God as the author and sustainer of their union, claiming the blessings bestowed on Adam and Eve in Eden. Third, a church wedding expresses the couple’s desire for the support and companionship of the church community as they embark on their marital journey. Lastly, a religious ceremony stands against the secularization of marriage, emphasizing its permanence and sacredness as a covenant ordained by God (Sanou, 2023, pp. 56-57).

#### Customary Marriage

Customary marriage, often known as traditional marriage, refers to any marriage contracted according to the traditional marriage customs and laws of a people group. in traditional religious contexts, those customs and laws are believed to have been revealed to and handed down by their ancestors. These laws and customs dictate how marriages are contracted because following the footsteps of the ancestors is perceived not only as a privilege but, most importantly, as a mandate. It is therefore believed that society cannot fully experience wellbeing and fulfillment unless its members continue to learn and act upon what has been transmitted to and by the ancestors (Sanou, 2015, p. 16).

The relationship with the ancestors as understood in traditional religious contexts and the important role they occupy in customary marriage is problematic from an Adventist perspective, based on the biblical teachings concerning the state of human beings in death. As Adventists, we believe that “death is an unconscious state for all people” (Seventh-day Adventists Believe, 2018, p. 391). At death, the body and the spirit cease to exist until the resurrection of the dead at the Second Coming of Christ (1 Thess 4:16-17). Leviticus 19:28; 20:6, 27 and Deuteronomy 14:1-2; 18:10-13 speak against any practice involved with spiritism and ancestral worship. The same prohibition still applies to Christians of all eras and sociocultural and religious contexts. Therefore, faithfulness to biblical principles should never be overshadowed by any form of sensitivity to local traditions and religious practices that stand in conflict with the Word of God.

### Choosing A Spouse

The processes associated with mate selection vary significantly around the world.

But broadly speaking, marriage partners are selected in two ways: choosing a life partner themselves—a love marriage; or their parents and larger kinship group choose for them—the arranged marriage (Rider and Ann Swallow, 2016; p. 118). Regarding how these two models of mate selection are viewed in different contexts, Kennon Rider and Ann Swallow note that

People who subscribe to the love marriage method of mate selection can often hardly fathom that arranged marriages could be happy or successful. Someone other than themselves choosing their partner may seem archaic, if not barbaric. Likewise, people from arranged marriage cultures often have difficulty believing that young people on their own could possibly select the best mate for themselves. Marital success, they would say, is too important to leave to chemistry. (2016; p. 120)

As a safeguard against any ethnocentric perspective, Christians should base their evaluation of other sociocultural marital practices on biblical principles alone. Although all human beings have been shaped by the voices of their social locations, Christians have to acknowledge that the voice of the Bible supersedes all other contextual voices. It is essential to point out that both forms of mate selection are referenced in Scripture. The most prominent reference to a romantic relationship in the Bible is the Song of Songs, an entire book of the Bible dedicated explicitly to describing and celebrating love and romance in a marital relationship, proclaiming it as “not cheap, ugly, and evil but beautiful, wholesome, and praiseworthy” (Davidson 2007, p. 551). The book reaffirms the pre-Fall ideal of sexuality as a Creation order, heterosexual monogamous marriage as the biblically sanctioned marital form, equality of the sexes without hierarchy, marital sexuality and exclusivity, and marital permanence (Davidson, 2007, pp. 554-606; Provan, 2001, p. 247). Another noteworthy characteristic of the Song of Songs is the unusual way in which “it gives a central place to a woman’s voice unmediated by that of a narrator” (Murphy and Huwiler, 1999, p. 221). Because of the belief that the book depicts God’s ideal for human love, it has been proposed that the author of the Song of Songs wishes the type of love narrated in the book to be admired and imitated (Provan, 2001, pp. 235, 243). Even though stained by sin, romantic love continues to be a blessing from God.

Besides celebrating romantic love, the Song of Songs also has wisdom teachings on romance and marriage. That has important implications for love marriages. First, alongside the beauty of romantic love depicted in the book, mutual commitment is presented as the key to an enduring love relationship (8:6). As “a story of love redeemed” (Provan, 2001, p. 247), the romantic love encountered in the Song of Songs is far from being a distorted expression of love as a momentary sentimental experience. Second, romantic love is a sacred thing—it is entering into a covenant relationship and implies a lifelong commitment to one’s spouse. This is a rebuke to any humanly-constructed alternatives of sexual relationships. Third, the Song of Songs recognizes that physical intimacy must wait for the right time and the right person; otherwise, it will prove destructive rather than wholesome. Thus, special, repeated emphasis is placed on the importance of caution and patience: “Do not rush romance” (2:7; 3:5; 8:4). Fourth, the absence of a direct description of physical intercourse suggests that: (1) physical sexuality and its expression are private and non-ultimate. The two lovers’ delight for each other is expressed sexually but not reduced to sex; (2) marriage is the larger reality, ultimate goal, and full realization of romance; and (3) physical intimacy as an expression of love is subordinated and secondary to marriage (Ortlund, 2020, pp. 497-506). Finally, the Song of Songs also confronts the idea that marriage inexorably dulls romance in a relationship. Throughout the book, the delight of the two lovers in each other never ends (8:6- 7, 14).

on the other hand, the marriage of Isaac and Rebekah is an example of an arranged marriage (Genesis 24). It provides valuable insights that can be applied to contemporary practices. First, the narrative underscores the importance of seeking divine guidance and honoring God’s will in marriage arrangements. Both Abraham and his servant relied on God’s providence to orchestrate the union of Isaac and Rebekah. Second, the story emphasizes character over social status or ethnicity. The extreme nature of the servant’s test served to reveal Rebekah’s positive character traits. Third, the passage sheds light on the importance of the bride’s consent. Even within the patriarchal society of the time, Abraham ensures Isaac’s bride-to-be has a say in the arrangement. Rebekah’s family and her own agreement make this a consensual arrangement. Fourth, the manner in which goods were transferred (garments and objects of silver and gold) from Abraham to Rebekah first and then to her relatives at the end of the negotiation process (Gen 24:53) is noteworthy. If this is considered a bride price, it was not an amount set by Rebekah’s relatives. It was a generous gift from Abraham to Rebekah and her family. Fifth, upon the arrival of Abraham’s servant with Rebekah, Isaac expressed his consent by taking her to his mother’s tent, a gesture signifying that she was now the mistress of the household (Walton, 2001, 532). Finally, the story suggests that arranged marriages can develop into love marriages. Isaac and Rebekah’s mutual affection for each other (Genesis 26:8) demonstrates the potential for love to blossom in arranged marriages through shared experiences and a life built together. in essence, Genesis 24 offers a framework for arranged marriages that prioritizes divine guidance, spouses’ characters, mutual consent, respect, and commitment to God and their marriage (Sanou and Duah, 2023, pp. 141-145).

### Conclusion

While customs, traditions, and specific practices for entering marriage vary across cultures, the core principles established in the Garden of Eden remain the guide for Christians. These principles also serve as the foundation for interpreting other biblical teachings on the subject. Ideally, marriage takes place in the presence of God, acknowledging him as the one who instituted this sacred union. However, the Bible does not prescribe a single, specific ceremony format. Marriage can be entered into following “the customs acknowledged in different contexts and cultures, insofar as such customs do not contradict biblical principles” (Hasel, 2015, p. 48).

#### References

Allender, D. B., & Longman, T. III. (1995). Intimate allies: Rediscovering God’s design for marriage and becoming soul mates for life. Tyndale House Publishers.

Badenas, R. (2025). Husband and wife in marriage: Issues on gender roles. in E. Mueller & E. B. de Souza (Eds.), Marriage: Biblical and theological aspects (pp. 73–100). Review and Herald.

Balswick, J. O., & Balswick, J. K. (2014). The family: A Christian perspective on the contemporary home (4th ed.). Baker Academic.

Clark, D. K. (1995). Biblical and theological foundations of marriage and family. in B. J. Neff & D. Ratcliff (Eds.), Handbook of family religious education (pp. 5–35). Religious Education Press.

Davidson, R. M. (2007). Flame of Yahweh: Sexuality in the Old Testament. Hendrickson Publishers.

Doukhan, J. B. (2014). The creation narrative. in S. Bell (Ed.), Servants and friends: A biblical theology of leadership (pp. 31–47). Andrews University Press.

Edwards, R. D. (1994, November). Why a church wedding? Ministry, 22, 22–23.

Hasel, F. M. (2015). The biblical concept of marriage in the Bible. in E. Mueller & E. B. de Souza (Eds.), Marriage: Biblical and theological aspects (pp. 25–48). Review and Herald.

Lawler, M. G. (2007). Marriage in the Bible. in K. Scott & M. Warren (Eds.), Perspectives on marriage: A reader (3rd ed., pp. 7–21). Oxford University Press.

Murphy, R. E., & Huwiler, E. (1999). Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Songs. Baker Books.

Ortlund, E. (2020). The wisdom of the Song of Songs: A pastoral guide for preaching and teaching. Themelios, 45(3), 494–514.

Provan, I. (2001). Ecclesiastes/Song of Songs. Zondervan.

Rider, K. V., & Swallow, A. (2016). Arranged marriage. in C. L. Shehan (Ed.), The Wiley Blackwell encyclopedia of family studies (Vol. 1, pp. 118–121). John Wiley & Sons.

Rock, C. B. (2000). Marriage and family. in Handbook of Seventh-day Adventist theology (pp. 724–750). Review and Herald.

Sanou, B. (2015). A biblical and missiological framework for cross-cultural mission: A case study of the Lobi funeral rites in Burkina Faso (Doctoral dissertation). Andrews University.

Sanou, B. (2023). Civil marriage, church marriage, or customary marriage? Abiding by God’s design for marriage in a global Adventist church. in E. Mueller & E. B. de Souza (Eds.), Family: With contemporary issues on marriage and parenting (pp. 49–72). Biblical Research Institute/Review and Herald.

Sanou, B., & Duah, M. (2023). Romantic/love marriages and arranged marriages: Biblical and sociocultural perspectives. in E. Mueller & E. B. de Souza (Eds.), Family: With contemporary issues on marriage and parenting (pp. 109–147). Biblical Research Institute/Review and Herald.

Seventh-day Adventists believe (3rd ed.). (2018). Review and Herald.

The Seventh-day Adventist Church manual. (2016). Secretariat.

Walton, J. H. (2001). Genesis. Zondervan.

White, E. G. (1890). Patriarchs and prophets. Review and Herald.

White, E. G. (1902). Testimonies for the church (Vol. 7). Pacific Press.

Wilkins, M. J. (2004). The NIV Application Commentary: Matthew. Zondervan.

_Boubakar Sanou, DMin, PhD is an Associate Professor of Mission and Intercultural Leadership at the Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary at Andrews University in Berrien Springs, MI, USA._