---
title: Fear God
subtitle: Chapter 16
---

The first of the three angels’ messages of Revelation 14 begins with the words “Fear God and give glory to Him” (Revelation 14:7). This command to fear God, however, is not to be confused with the idea of being afraid of God. On the contrary, we learn from the Bible that “God is love” (1 John 4:8, 16) and that “there is no fear in love; but perfect love casts out fear” (1 John 4:18). The command not to be afraid occurs more than 50 times in the Bible.

What does it mean, then, when the Bible tells us to fear God? What kind of fear can possibly coexist with love and affection?  Hebrews 12:28 gives us a clue when it instructs us to serve God “with reverence and godly fear.” Here we find godly fear associated with “reverence,” which is defined as showing great honor or profound awe, adoration, and respect. This reverence for God is the positive “fear” of which the Bible writers speak.

### Solemn Joy

While rightly associated with a solemn attitude, true reverence should also reflect great joy. Reverence is being in awe not only of God’s might and power, but also of His love and mercy. When Isaiah saw God, He said, “Woe is me, for I am undone! Because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips; for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts” (Isaiah 6:5). Being in the presence of God inspired Isaiah with deep humility and a greater appreciation of God’s power than ever before. But it was also the revelation of God’s mercy, in pardoning his sin, that inspired Isaiah to dedicate his life to sacrificial service for Him (see Isaiah 6:7, 8). God’s character is a perfect blend of justice and mercy, and true reverence includes a healthy appreciation for both.

Through the prophet Jeremiah, God revealed that when He would forgive and cleanse Judah and Israel of their sins, they would “fear and tremble for all the goodness and all the prosperity that I provide for it” (Jeremiah 33:9). Notice that the fear and trembling here described is for the abundant “goodness” and “prosperity” that comes from God. Similarly, the psalmist writes, “Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling” (Psalm 2:11). Biblical fear and trembling do not take away our joy. They do not reflect a believer who is petrified by fear of judgment, but one who is overwhelmingly thankful for love and forgiveness that is undeserved! When the Holy Spirit gives us a revelation of God’s majestic character, and we sense that we are in the presence of One who is infinite in holiness and love, it is a solemn experience. At the same time, it should also inspire us with great hope and joy. As it is written: “In Your presence is fullness of joy” (Psalm 16:11).

### Reverence for God’s Name

The third commandment of the moral law reads: “You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes His name in vain” (Exodus 20:7). Because God is holy, we should treat His name with the utmost respect. We should not use the names of God or Jesus as empty expressions or slang, or even use euphemisms that sound similar to His name. As the psalmist says: “Holy and awesome is His name” (Psalm 111:9).

While it is true that God is our friend, He is not like our erring, mortal, human friends. He is the Almighty Creator and Sovereign over the entire universe. “You thought that I was altogether like you,” the Lord declared in Psalm 50:21. But Scripture is clear that in so very many ways, He is not like us. “ ‘For My thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways My ways,’ says the Lord. ‘For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are My ways higher than your ways, and My thoughts than your thoughts’ ” (Isaiah 55:8, 9). We make a terrible mistake if we view God or His name in a casual or common way. For this reason Jesus taught us to pray, “Our Father in heaven, hallowed be Your name” (Matthew 6:9).

We must remember that the reason God’s name is holy is that it represents His person and character. There is no special sanctity attached to the original Hebrew or Greek letters with which the Bible was written or to finding the precise pronunciation of His name in those languages. God’s name is holy because the God it represents is holy. We should be reverent, not flippant, when speaking any of the many names attributed to God. But the Scripture does not teach that we may speak the names of God and Jesus only in Hebrew, or that translating His name into other languages is wrong. This is an extreme view that confuses reverence for God with a reverence for human language.

### Reverence in Prayer

When we pray, our posture and attitude should reflect our reverence for God. If we are physically able to kneel during our personal prayer time, this posture best impresses upon our own hearts and minds the idea of submission to God. For some, kneeling causes too much pain or difficulty in getting back up. God understands this and is most concerned that our hearts are humble before Him, regardless of our posture. Because the Bible admonishes us to “pray without ceasing” (1 Thessalonians 5:17), there will often be occasions in which we will need to pray while standing, sitting, or walking. God hears every one of these prayers.

Nevertheless, the scriptural examples of kneeling before God abound. This posture appears to be a positive sign of reverence and an expression of humility in worship. “Oh come, let us worship and bow down; let us kneel before the Lord our Maker” (Psalm 95:6).

### Reverence for God’s Word

The apostle Paul counsels us to “work out your own salvation with fear and trembling” (Philippians 2:12). While we are not to be afraid of God, we are to take His Word seriously. We are to be afraid of the consequences of disregarding it. When the children of Israel quaked with fear at the glory of God’s presence on Mount Sinai, Moses assured them, “Do not fear; for God has come to test you, and that His fear may be before you, so that you may not sin” (Exodus 20:20). At the same time that he told them “Do not fear,” Moses also desired that “His fear”—a healthy respect for God’s commands—would protect the nation of Israel from the terrible results of sin.

Reverence is an attitude of trust in God and distrust in self, which manifests itself in obedience to God’s Word. “On this one I will look: on him who is poor and of a contrite spirit, and who trembles at My word” (Isaiah 66:2). To tremble at the Word of God is to take time to read it regularly and to have a deep interest in the wisdom and instruction it provides. Even the physical handling of our Bibles should be given extra care in comparison to common books. We should not casually toss it around or use it as a coaster for a drink. By treating it with respect outwardly, we impress our minds with the need to heed carefully the words on the inside.

### Reverence for God’s House

Another area in which reverence for God should be evident is in the way we relate to the house of worship. “God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be held in reverence by all those around Him” (Psalm 89:7). We must remember that when we come into the sanctuary each Sabbath, we are coming to worship in the presence of God. “You shall keep My Sabbaths and reverence My sanctuary: I am the Lord” (Leviticus 19:30). Being aware of this will lead us to behave differently in the sanctuary.

“If when the people come into the house of worship, they have genuine reverence for the Lord and bear in mind that they are in His presence, there will be a sweet eloquence in silence. The whispering and laughing and talking which might be without sin in a common business place should find no sanction in the house where God is worshiped. The mind should be prepared to hear the Word of God, that it may have due weight and suitably impress the heart” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 492).

We can maintain an atmosphere of reverence in the sanctuary by reserving casual conversation for outside its walls, muting cell phones during worship, instructing our children never to run or play in the sanctuary, and by always being attentive to those leading out in the worship service. This final aspect, that of paying close attention during worship and not distracting others from doing the same, is an underlying principle that should govern our behavior in the house of God. When the Word is spoken, “listen attentively. Sleep not for one instant, because by this slumber you may lose the very words that you need most” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 493).

Reverence during worship includes more than being quiet or sitting still. It involves participating in the service with the whole heart and being genuinely interested. It involves singing when it is time to sing, kneeling when it is time to kneel, following along in our Bibles, and even proclaiming a heartfelt “Amen!” or “Praise the Lord!” when the Word is preached. “The lifeless attitude of the worshipers in the house of God is one great reason why the ministry is not more productive of good” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 493). It is not merely noise or disruption in the sanctuary that is the heart of irreverence, but a lifeless indifference and disregard for the presence of God and the power of His Word!

While attention and participation in worship are vital aspects of reverence, we should be careful to avoid artificial methods of bringing life into the worship service. When theatrics or levity are made the focus of sacred services in an effort merely to entertain the crowd or elicit applause, reverence is lost.  An atmosphere of a secular performance steals from the quiet influence of the Spirit of God. Our sacred services should be full of enthusiasm and joy without compromising solemnity and order.

A final aspect of reverence in public worship is our appearance. It has become common in recent years to say that God doesn’t care how we dress when we appear before Him in worship. It is certainly true that we should never exclude or look down on someone because of what he or she wears to church. But consider that in biblical times the priests were given special instructions on exactly what to wear when ministering in the sanctuary (see Exodus 28). Notice, too, that God told the people to wash their clothes before meeting with Him to receive His law (see Exodus 19:10, 14).

These examples suggest that we should not be unmindful of our appearance before God, but should be clean, modest, and respectful in our attire. The most respectful attire may vary by culture, but we should appear before God in our best. It would be inconsistent to wear a suit to work, but jeans and a sweatshirt to appear before God. Furthermore, if angels cover themselves with their wings when in God’s presence (see Isaiah 6:1, 2), how much more should we properly cover ourselves by dressing modestly for public worship. Our choice of clothing for worship will impress both ourselves and others with the level of importance that we place upon God and His Word.

### Practical Application

Reverence is an attitude of the heart that reflects profound love and respect for God. It leads us to treat that which God calls holy with special care. As you have read this chapter, perhaps God has revealed to you areas in which a casual attitude toward sacred things has crept into your own heart and life. Commit yourself to treating that which is sacred in an extra-special way. Doing so will elevate God and His Word in your own mind and in the minds of those around you.

One area of caution, however, is that we should never cherish a critical spirit toward others because of a perceived lack of reverence in their lives. True reverence will lead us to say, as did Isaiah when in the presence of God, “Woe is me, for I am undone!” (Isaiah 6:5). It is this humility that makes truly reverent people the most gracious and thoughtful when dealing with the weaknesses of others. Reverence is an area that can easily slip out of view for any of us if we are not watchful. So be kind and thoughtful if you see others who do not seem to reflect the scriptural ideal for reverence. Rather than focusing on the weaknesses of others, endeavor to apply the message of Revelation 14:7 to your own life: “Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come.” In so doing, you will experience the blessing that can come only with true reverence for God. “Happy is the man who is always reverent” (Proverbs 28:14).