---
title: A Father’s Role
subtitle: Week 3
---

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
“A father is the man who can change a world he will not be part of by building the tiny human that is part of him” (Craig D. Lounsbrough).

Research shows that the impact of parents is by far the most important contributor to a child’s faith development, with some citing parents to be almost the sole influencers at 99 percent.<sup>2</sup> The impact of a father on their child’s faith is undeniable. “When Mom is a regular churchgoer but Dad attends infrequently (or never), just 2 to 3 percent of their kids go on to become regular churchgoers. When both Mom and Dad attend church regularly, 33 percent of kids grow up as regular attendees. Here’s the shocker: when Dad is faithful but Mom never attends, 44 percent of the kids end up as regular churchgoers. This is the highest outcome of any scenario.”<sup>3</sup>

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

Discuss the qualities of spiritual fathers you know, and what you have observed about their children and the father’s interactions with their children.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore and Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

Read the Bible passages and share a one-sentence summary of these biblical fathers, considering their strengths and weaknesses. How do they encourage 
you in your journey as a father? What other Bible fathers do you respect as 
role models?

+ Adam (Genesis 4:25, 26)
+ Noah (Genesis 6:9-22; Hebrews 11:7)
+ Abraham (Genesis 15:1-7; 18:19)
+ Eli (1 Samuel 2:22-29; 3:11-13)

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Read and Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Read the quotes below, and reflect or discuss:

+ What is challenging?
+ What practical ideas can I put in place to help me be the father God needs for my child? Who can I ask to help me in this work?

> “The children look to the father for support and guidance; he needs to have a right conception of life and of the influences and associations that should surround his family; above all, he should be controlled by the love and fear of God and by the teaching of His Word, that he may guide the feet of his children in the right way” (Ellen G. White, _The Adventist Home_, p. 211).

> “The father … will bind his children to the throne of God by living faith. Distrusting his own strength, he hangs his helpless soul on Jesus and takes hold of the strength of the Most High. Brethren, pray at home, in your family, night and morning; pray earnestly in your closet; and while engaged in your daily labor, lift up the soul to God in prayer. It was thus that Enoch walked with God. The silent, fervent prayer of the soul will rise like holy incense to the throne of grace and will be as acceptable to God as if offered in the sanctuary. To all who thus seek Him, Christ becomes a present help in time of need. They will be strong in the day of trial” (Ellen G. White, _The Adventist Home_, pp. 212, 213).

> “The father may exert an influence over his children which shall be stronger than the allurements of the world. He should study the disposition and character of the members of his little circle, that he may understand their needs and their dangers and thus be prepared to repress the wrong and encourage the right” (Ellen G. White, _The Adventist Home_, p. 221).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Remember…

You (or your child) might have an absent father in your life. This is not what God intended, yet He lovingly steps into the void as the greatest Father imaginable to help guide and shape our characters (see Hebrews 12:6-11). Consider the messages in Jeremiah 33:3 and Matthew 6:8-15.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-04-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Pray for the fathers in your group, that God will empower them to\
lead their children and homes in godly ways, with courage. Pray too\
for your children, that God will give you wisdom to provide the best\
possible environment to grow their characters.

---

{"style":{"text":{"size": "xs"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Barna Group, _Who Is Responsible for Children’s Faith Formation?_\
<sup>3</sup> David Murrow, _Young Men and Faith_, in _Why Men Hate Going to Church_, p. 185.