---
title: "Barnabas: Epitomizing Discipling and Nurturing"
---

_Anthony R. Kent_

Barnabas is Luke’s Levite hero of Acts! While one Levite, in the good Samaritan parable, wouldn’t cross a road to help a victim of a violent robbery, Barnabas crisscrossed cities and countries discipling and nurturing individuals, communities, and churches. Barnabas’ courage, character, and commitment enabled him to be the ultimate human change agent of the book of Acts. The inspiring story of Barnabas is a not-so-subtle invitation to disciples of every era to emulate the amazing ministry of the “Son of Encouragement.”

The book of Acts is the Hollywood of the New Testament. But it’s a wholesome Hollywood! After a few words of introduction, it’s a case of “Lights, camera, action!”

It has stars. It’s action-packed from start to finish. Many of its scenes, although written 2,000 years ago, could easily be major Hollywood blockbusters of the twenty-first century.

When Luke graphically describes the ascension of Jesus from the Mount of Olives (Acts 1:6-12), the outpouring of the Holy Spirit in the upper room (Acts 2), or the shipwreck of Paul and his companions in the Mediterranean (Acts 27:13–28:2), it’s as though there are film clips embedded into the text. But these events are more compelling than modern movie scenes! Paul’s epic shipwreck takes two weeks, and Paul the hero oversees the safety of all passengers and crew, and although he’s bitten by a viper he barely flinches, and it’s the snake, not the hero, who dies!

The key words that we remember from Acts are from the scripts of action sequences:

- “Men of Galilee, why do you stand gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will so come in like manner as you saw Him go into heaven” (Acts 1:11, NKJV).
- “Silver and gold I do not have, but what I do have I give you: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk” (Acts 3:6, NKJV).
- “Nor is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved” (Acts 4:12, NKJV).
- “Lord, lay not this sin to their charge” (Acts 7:60, KJV)

Of all the stars that Luke introduces to us in Acts, there is none more significant than the star of discipling! And he has a nickname to prove it! And he’s better than any Hollywood star! He’s someone we can trust, emulate, and use as a positive role model. Best of all, he’s not the creation of some scriptwriter’s imagination—he’s real! His principles, morality, and motives are always good, wholesome, encouraging, and inspirational! He’s not just _acting_, verbalizing memorized words from a script—he’s living the Christian life, the authentic real life, of a disciple maker.

We are introduced to this character for the first time in Acts 4. It’s helpful to read the wider context of his introduction—how Luke brings him onto his stage. For Luke, introductions are important.<sup>1</sup> Besides, Luke shares important information about nurturing and discipling people in this introduction to a great discipler:

“Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his own, but they had everything in common. And with great power the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. There was not a needy person among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of what was sold and laid it at the apostles’ feet, and it was distributed to each as any had need. Thus Joseph, who was also called by the apostles Barnabas (which means son of encouragement), a Levite, a native of Cyprus, sold a field that belonged to him and brought the money and laid it at the apostles’ feet” (Acts 4:32-37, ESV).

It’s a beautiful picture! And in this inspiring picture of the apostles and believers—there is only person, one individual, whose identity surfaces to the top for specific mention. Most likely he represents best the characteristics of the group.

This is the first glimpse we have of Joseph, who was given the nickname of Barnabas.

Nicknames often tell the story of a person very succinctly. The most obvious feature of a person can be captured in a simple nickname—like Sons of Thunder! Positive nicknames are generally a good sign that the individual is well appreciated and regarded by their peers. (Among teenagers, it’s not unusual that the most popular receive nicknames.) And as readers of Acts will discover, there is every reason to regard and appreciate Barnabas highly, and he was aptly called Son of Encouragement. Barnabas is referred to 23 times in Acts, and he emerges as one of Luke’s heroes, one of the great heroes of the early followers of Jesus.<sup>2</sup>

Why? Because he was a discipler and a nurturer!

Barnabas was a Levite. Some tend to look down on Levites, but there is no reason to have a negative opinion of Barnabas. Who were the Levites?

According to Darrell L. Bock, “Levites were often wealthy and very well educated, but not all were priests. . . . Levites served in the temple, keeping watch over the gates, policing the area, instructing, and copying the Torah.”<sup>3</sup> The roles and functions entrusted to Levites, protecting the assets of the Temple, teaching the Torah, and copying it—well before the days of printing presses—indicate that Levites were generally respected and trusted in the community.

We are not told where Barnabas’ land was located. It could have been in Judea or on his home island of Cyprus. It appears that the injunction against Levites owning land was widely relaxed by the first century. Even in the time of Jeremiah, we have the example of Jeremiah being a priest and purchasing a property (Jeremiah 32:7-12).

So Barnabas sold his land, without any fuss or fanfare, and laid **all** the proceeds at the feet of the apostles. This honest, generous, and unassuming approach of Barnabas stands in stark contrast to what follows immediately in Acts—the story of the deceitful Ananias and Sapphira. It is a little disappointing that many of us may know the story of the unfaithful **Ananias and Sapphira** better than the remarkably faithful Barnabas.

But there is another important contrast in Luke’s account. Readers of Acts are soon to read of garments being placed at the feet of a young man named Saul (Acts 7:58). These items of clothing are not intended for the poor or needy, like the proceeds of Barnabas’ assets. Instead, these are the robes of those stoning Stephen, the dedicated deacon and disciple. The disparity in the introduction of Saul (who later became known as Paul) and Barnabas is truly jolting! Luke appears to be highlighting the extreme background differences of these two people. Saul was doing all he could to control, thwart, and destroy the disciples of Jesus. Barnabas was completely the opposite, doing all he could to resource, grow, and develop Jesus’ disciples. These two earnest, zealous, Jewish, religious men, having completely opposite opinions about Jesus, are soon to meet each other. Careful readers of Acts anticipate this meeting and are intrigued by the clash. They wonder, Who will win out—Saul or Barnabas?

So Barnabas gave all the money from the sale of the land to the leaders of Jesus’ followers—no strings attached! Barnabas had no expectations of controlling the expenditure of the money nor controlling the leadership. And it wasn’t a case of paying money to the clergy leaders so that Barnabas could have the excuse to do no ministry. These points are very apparent in Acts 11:22. It’s the church in Jerusalem that sends Barnabas to Antioch—the church body maintained control, and Barnabas was a willing servant, following the directives of the Holy Spirit and the body of Christ.

What else is revealed about Barnabas?

Acts 11:22-24 describes him as “a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith” (verse 24, NKJV), as well as being a very fruitful evangelist. Colossians 4:10 informs us that Barnabas was a cousin of John Mark—this is the Mark who wrote the Gospel of Mark, the youthful disciple of Jesus. The _Seventh-day Adventist Bible Dictionary_ introduces to us a tradition that identifies Barnabas as one of the 70 (or 72 in some translations) sent out by Jesus, as recorded in Luke 10:1.<sup>4</sup>

In Acts 9 Luke records the much-anticipated first meeting of Saul and Barnabas. They meet in Jerusalem. Although they once had vastly different opinions about Jesus and His followers, Saul had encountered the resurrected and ascended Jesus on his journey of persecution to Damascus. Instead of implementing persecution in Damascus, Saul as a recipient of the gift of the Holy Spirit (verse 17) and newly baptized (verse 18) became a proclaimer of Jesus (verse 20). The persecutor suddenly became the persecuted. In the dead of night Luke describes Saul dramatically fleeing from Damascus (verse 25). Saul makes his way to Jerusalem and encounters the “Son of Encouragement.” This first meeting of Saul and Barnabas provides us with a great insight into Barnabas’ methods of operation as a disciple of Jesus and essentially as a disciple maker:

“And when he [Saul] had come to Jerusalem, he attempted to join the disciples. And they were all afraid of him, for they did not believe that he was a disciple. But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles and declared to them how on the road he had seen the Lord, who spoke to him, and how at Damascus he had preached boldly in the name of Jesus. So he went in and out among them at Jerusalem, preaching boldly in the name of the Lord. And he spoke and disputed against the Hellenists. But they were seeking to kill him. And when the brothers learned this, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus” (verses 26-30, ESV).

All the disciples, except Barnabas, were afraid of Saul! Although Jesus’ followers in Jerusalem had all those beautiful attributes of dedication (Acts 2:42-47; 4:32-35)—**initially they shunned Saul**!

Risking potential damage to his reputation, Barnabas was fearless! His treatment of Saul was exemplary! For good reason the text of Acts singles him out and highlights his virtues as a discipler and nurturer! Acts 9:27 describes how Barnabas took Saul and brought him to the apostles. This carries the idea that Barnabas “took him under his wing.”<sup>5</sup> Barnabas’ ministry to Saul, instead of ruining his reputation, enhanced his reputation as a “son of encouragement”! Not that his support of Saul was motivated by the desire to enhance his reputation.

It appears that Barnabas was not afraid to risk or lose his life in his ministry of discipling potential followers of Jesus. Clearly this speaks to an assurance that Barnabas had—a profound awareness that his life and destiny were in the hands of his Savior, Jesus, and that nothing would fall upon him that was outside of heaven’s plan for him.

If we reflect on Galatians 1:18, Saul visited Jerusalem on this occasion for 15 days, so it is reasonable to assume that Barnabas didn’t just support him for one initial meeting (which may have lasted for minutes or hours), but most likely the best part of two weeks! In this context, particularly in the Jerusalem of this era, two weeks could be a long time. For example, Jesus, in less than a week, was welcomed into the city triumphantly and yet within that same week was crucified by an angry mob. Jerusalem was a dangerous and volatile city, and Barnabas was prepared to associate closely with Saul, who could well have been regarded as a traitor by one group or a wolf in sheep’s clothing by the opposing group. Either way, Barnabas was willing to support a marginalized individual and risk being personally isolated.

Barnabas also verified Saul’s story of transformation.<sup>6</sup> Sometimes it can be very difficult to tell our story—it can be difficult to “blow our own trumpet” or “ring our own bell,” because it can appear that we are bragging. But Barnabas helped Saul confirm his astonishing—no, let’s call it what it was: miraculous—Damascus road experience.

It can be even more difficult to tell our story, particularly if it is an amazing miraculous story, to a sceptical audience. And the apostles were sceptical!

So Barnabas showed Saul/Paul how to share his extraordinary testimony to this rather untrusting audience. And Paul was to learn from this mentoring, because years later, as recorded in Acts 22, Paul shares his testimony confidently before persecutors in Jerusalem; and as recorded in Acts 26, once again Paul boldly proclaims his conversion testimony before the unbelieving Agrippa.

Clearly Barnabas was an important mentor and discipler for Saul. And Saul, at the time of this visit to Jerusalem in Acts 9, was viewed very suspiciously by most of the followers of Jesus. During this time in Jerusalem, Saul continued to be somewhat of a nuisance; he was problematic, and his life was in danger. This passage concludes with Saul, to avoid being murdered in Jerusalem, being sent back home to Tarsus. Saul being shipped back to Tarsus is reminiscent of the colloquial cliché, “Go back to wherever you came from!”

In Tarsus, Saul remained in obscurity. We are not told what he did during that time— in Luke’s account he does nothing to distinguish himself; he remains inconspicuous, unseen, and unheard.

The next occasion that we read of Barnabas is Acts 11:22. Barnabas is sent by the church in Jerusalem to the fledgling work being done in Antioch. Barnabas does his ministry well in Antioch and is warmly received and appreciated by the community.

In Luke’s record of Barnabas’ ministry in Antioch, it is very easy to miss the importance of the next brief reference to Barnabas: “So Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul” (Acts 11:25, ESV).

We are not told how Barnabas traveled from Antioch to Tarsus. If he went by land, it was 148 miles (238 kilometers)! If he traveled approximately 20 miles (30 kilometers) per day, which was the typical travel length of a day’s journey, it would have taken Barnabas eight traveling days! Walking 20 miles (or 30 kilometers) was not regarded as a suitable Sabbath activity on a day of rest, so the likely time length of the journey was longer than eight days. By any measure of the era, traveling from Antioch to Tarsus was a substantial journey!

It is also probable that Barnabas traveled at his own expense. Paul was to later write in 1 Corinthians 9:3-7 that he and Barnabas did not receive wages when they were ministering—even their expenses don’t appear to be covered! Barnabas was a remarkable man, donating all the proceeds of the sale of his property and then ministering as a self-funded volunteer. So, not only did Barnabas undertake this considerable journey to look for Saul, it is likely he provided his own travel expenses.

Luke adds these details: “And when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. For a whole year they met with the church and taught a great many people. And in Antioch the disciples were first called Christians” (Acts 11:26, ESV).

The words “and when he had found him” reminds us of Luke’s earlier wording in his record of Jesus’ parable of the lost sheep. In fact, the phrasing of the Greek in Acts 11:26 is identical to Luke 15:5.<sup>7</sup> The text may also imply that Barnabas needed to do some careful, thorough searching to find Saul. And then Barnabas brought Saul back to Antioch. Barnabas’ return trip was most likely more than 300 miles (nearly 500 kilometers)! Why did Barnabas make this extensive, arduous journey? For one reason: to reach out to Saul so he could disciple and nurture him!

Barnabas returned to Antioch with Saul, and there he taught, trained, nurtured, discipled, and ministered with Saul for a year.

It would also appear that Luke wants to ensure that his readers don’t miss the significance of this ministry at Antioch. He writes: “The disciples were called Christians first in Antioch” (Acts 11:26). This ministry of Barnabas—teaching, training, nurturing, and discipling—appears to trigger that all-important, timeless, identifying badge: Christian! Clearly Barnabas’ Christlike ministry is an all-important association with the word “Christian.”

God blessed both of these mighty workers, Barnabas and Saul/Paul, in their ministries. The Christians at Antioch received this very important instruction from the Holy Spirit: “Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them” (Acts 13:2, ESV).

Barnabas and Paul had very effective ministries. As well as being nurturers and disciplers, Barnabas and Paul were evangelists—sharing the gospel and the knowledge of salvation with those who were unfamiliar with Jesus. The only recorded speech we have of Barnabas is an evangelistic message he copreached with Paul at Lystra (Acts 14:15-17)— to a pagan audience. This is important because it illustrates that Barnabas was not just focused inwardly, toward those within the church. All people were of interest and significance to Barnabas; he was a “son of encouragement” to all.

How important was the nurturing, discipling, and training offered by Barnabas? The following comments offered by Ellen G. White illustrate the importance of this type of ministry: “Experienced workers today do a noble work when, instead of trying to carry all the burdens themselves, they train younger workers and place burdens on their shoulders.”<sup>8</sup>

And so Saul grew, under the blessing of God, empowered by the Holy Spirit, and under the training, nurturing, and discipling of Barnabas. Ellen White also writes of the Paul tutored, nurtured and discipled by Barnabas: “Paul’s heart burned with a love for sinners, and he put all his energies into the work of soul winning. There never lived a more self-denying, persevering worker.”<sup>9</sup>

We know well the extraordinary ministry of Saul/Paul: apostle, missionary, evangelist, pastor, teacher, trainer, biblical author, humanitarian aid worker—the list goes on! Paul was certainly an amazing servant of God. It’s perfectly reasonable to wonder: What would have happened to Paul had not Barnabas made that long journey to Tarsus to find him, disciple him, and nurture him?

Luke also describes Barnabas as a key person in the discipling, nurture, and reclamation of another very important New Testament character, John Mark (Acts 15:36-39). John Mark, better known as Mark, had deserted Paul and Barnabas during an earlier missionary journey (Acts 13:13). Mark could so easily have been lost to the Christian cause. Mark could have been seen as lacking moral fiber, perhaps a backslider. But Barnabas saw the potential of Mark, this youthful disciple of Jesus, and was eager to offer him some encouragement, further training, and another opportunity.

Ellen G. White provides this valuable insight: “This desertion caused Paul to judge Mark unfavorably, and even severely, for a time. Barnabas, on the other hand, was inclined to excuse him because of his inexperience. He felt anxious that Mark should not abandon the ministry, for he saw in him qualifications that would fit him to be a useful worker for Christ. In after years his solicitude in Mark’s behalf was richly rewarded, for the young man gave himself unreservedly to the Lord and to the work of proclaiming the gospel message in difficult fields. Under the blessing of God, and the wise training of Barnabas, he developed into a valuable worker.”<sup>10</sup>

Paul was afterward reconciled to Mark and received him as a fellow laborer. He also recommended him to the Colossians as one who was a fellow worker “unto the kingdom of God,” and “a comfort unto me” (Colossians 4:11).

Again, not long before his own death, Paul spoke of Mark as “profitable” to him “for the ministry” (2 Timothy 4:11). History tells us that Mark, inspired by the Holy Spirit, was to author one of the most significant pieces of Christian literature: “The Gospel According to Mark”— the “Mark” of the New Testament. This was a new genre of literature. It was an innovative way of telling the story of Jesus and also instructing and nurturing people into being disciples of Jesus. The majority of biblical scholars agree that Mark’s Gospel account was source material for the Gospels that were later written by Matthew and Luke.<sup>11</sup> Imagine if Barnabas had not taken Mark “under his wing” and Mark had not written his Gospel? Imagine a Bible without the Gospel of Mark, and without Mark’s Gospel, I wonder what the Gospels of Matthew and Luke would have been like.

There is an obvious and natural question we need to ask: Where would the Christian faith be without the discipleship, nurture, and reclamation ministry of Barnabas?

The Barnabas who nurtured, discipled, trained, and mentored Mark. The Barnabas who nurtured, trained, discipled, and mentored Saul/Paul to be an apostle, missionary, evangelist, pastor, teacher, trainer, biblical author, and humanitarian aid worker!

When we consider the ministry of Barnabas, we can’t help pondering what the Christian Bible would look like if Barnabas had not been the “son of encouragement” to Paul and Mark, who ultimately were both very significant authors of the New Testament.

Having reflected on the life, ministry, and priorities of Barnabas in the early church, we should consider our own personal ministries and the church of today. Some very appropriate questions to ask ourselves are:

How much stronger and healthier would the church be today if we retained the evangelistic emphasis but also were more effective with our discipling, nurture, and retention?

How can we emulate Barnabas’ ministry in the church today? What could happen in the church today with an effective ministry of discipleship, nurture, and reclamation?

_Anthony Kent has specialized in discipleship-based evangelism in Western secular settings, as well as being an effective church planter in irreligious cities. He has ministered and pastored in varying contexts: inner-city, suburban, regional, and rural isolated churches. Prior to being elected to the General Conference Ministerial Association in 2005, Anthony was the ministerial secretary for the South Pacific Division. His ministry is always enhanced by his devoted wife, Debora, and their two young adult daughters, who continue to keep him very humble._

**Endnotes:**

<sup>1</sup> For example: Luke’s introductions to his Gospel (Luke 1:1-4) and to the book of Acts (Acts 1:1, 2) are very important. Similarly important are Luke’s introductions of John the Baptist (Luke 1:5-25, 39-45, 57-80), Jesus (Luke 1:26-56; 2:1–4:15), and Saul/Paul (Acts7:58; 8:1-3; 9:1-25).

<sup>2</sup> Darrell L. Bock, _Acts_ (Grand Rapids: Baker, 2007), p. 216.

<sup>3</sup> Ibid.

<sup>4</sup> “Barnabas,” _Seventh-day Adventist Bible Dictionary_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1960, 1979), p. 121.

<sup>5</sup> Bock, p. 369.

<sup>6</sup> Craig S. Keener, _Acts: An Exegetical Commentary_ 3:1–14:28 (Grand Rapids: Baker, 2013), vol. 2, p. 1689.

<sup>7</sup> Both Luke 15:5 and Acts 11:26 have καὶ εὑρὼν.

<sup>8</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Acts of the Apostles_ (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1911), p. 368.

<sup>9</sup> Ibid., p. 367.

<sup>10</sup> Ibid., p. 170.

<sup>11</sup> Robert H. Stein, _Mark_ (Grand Rapids: Baker, 2008), p. 16.