---
title: The Second Coming of Christ
---

The second coming of Christ is “the blessed hope” of the church, the grand climax of the gospel. The Savior’s coming will be literal, personal, visible, audible, and global. He will not return in two phases, as is often taught, first secretly rapturing the church, and later returning visibly. He will return in one glorious appearing, and “every eye will see Him.” There will be no second opportunity for repentance after Jesus comes. John 14:1-3; Titus 2:13; Acts 1:9-11; 1 Thessalonians 4:16, 17; 5:1-4; Matthew 24:26-31; Revelation 1:7.

When Jesus returns, the righteous dead will be resurrected, and together with the righteous living will be glorified and taken to heaven. The unrighteous will die, and the earth will be left desolate. 1 Thessalonians 4:13-18; 1 Corinthians 15:51-54; Philippians 3:20, 21; Jeremiah 25:30-33; 2 Thessalonians 1:7-10; 2:8; Revelation 19:11-21; 2 Peter 3:10-12.

The fulfillment of end-time prophecy, particularly as seen in the present condition of our world, indicates that Christ’s coming is near. Because the “day and hour” of that event has not been revealed, we are exhorted to be ready at all times, being careful not to be lulled to spiritual sleep by the “cares of this life.” Matthew 24:1-14, 36, 42-44; 2 Timothy 3:1-5; 1 Thessalonians 5:5, 6; Titus 2:11-14; Luke 21:34.

**My Commitment**: _By the grace of God I choose to place my affections upon Christ rather than the things of this world, so that I may be ready for His soon appearing._

- [x] Yes, I agree.
- [ ] I have questions.

`My questions`