---
title: The Witness of a Christlike Character
subtitle: Chapter 2
---

A witness is someone who knows something by personal experience. Peter and John were “uneducated and untrained men,” but when the religious leaders of their day heard them boldly standing for the truth, “they realized that they had been with Jesus” (Acts 4:13). It was their firsthand knowledge of Jesus that compelled them to testify: “Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than to God, you judge. For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard” (verses 19, 20). Education and training have their place, but only our personal experiences with Jesus 
make us witnesses.

Similarly, the apostle Paul became a witness after a personal encounter with Christ on the road to Damascus. A believer named Ananias explained to Paul that this meeting had been carefully orchestrated by God: “The God of our fathers has chosen you that you should know His will, and see the Just One, and hear the voice of His mouth. For you will be His witness to all men of what you have seen and heard” (Acts 22:14, 15). Once again, becoming a witness is about personal experience—what we have “seen and heard.”

In order for people to witness for Christ effectively, they must first become witnesses by experiencing the love and power of God in their own lives. Jesus promised: “But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be witnesses to Me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth” (Acts 1:8). Jesus did not merely tell the disciples that they would engage in witnessing activities, but that they would “be” witnesses. Similarly, He did not promise merely to train His followers how to fish for men, but assured them that they would “become” (Mark 1:17) fishers of men. Witnessing is more than an activity. It is an identity. It is not merely what we do, but who we are.

#### A New Person

The gospel transforms us from the inside out. When we are born of the Spirit, we become new creatures in Christ (see 2 Corinthians 5:17). Through faith in Christ and His righteousness, we are justified before God (see Romans 5:1), and the Holy Spirit begins to impart to us the unselfish attributes of God (see Galatians 5:22, 23). Having received forgiveness and peace, we begin to think about those who are lost and without hope of eternal life. We become debtors to all people (see Romans 1:14), imploring them to be reconciled to God (see 2 Corinthians 5:18-20). Thus the fundamental experience of becoming a new person in Christ is the _same one_ that makes us His witnesses. It is an inward change brought about by an infusion of spiritual power.

Much of what we call “witnessing,” however, is purely mechanical and doesn’t even require the Spirit of God. Consisting only of scheduled tasks and outreach activities, this limited view of witnessing is easily turned on and off. For instance, when we pass out flyers inviting people to church or when we talk to guests at an evangelistic meeting, we recognize these activities as witnessing. But when we’re at the grocery store, we’re just buying food. When we’re at the fitness center, we’re exercising. When we’re at a family gathering, we’re socializing. Many Christians turn off the “witnessing” switch for most of their lives!

> <callout></callout>
> Witnessing is more than an activity. It is an identity. 

Such a view often leads to witnessing efforts that are halfhearted, sporadic, and short-lived. And they are rarely successful. True soul winners are never _not_ soul winners. And true witnessing is more than an outing on the schedule. It’s the saving influence of a person who has experienced the grace of Christ (see Acts 5:30-32). What we need is not more people who will volunteer to do missionary work, but more _missionaries_. Not more people who will go on an outing to fish for souls, but more _fishers of men_. Not more people to share their opinions about God, but more _ambassadors for Christ_.

There was never a time Jesus was “off the clock.” His singular purpose was to bless and save others. And no one was exempt: “Every soul was precious in His sight. . . . He saw in all, souls whom it was His mission to save” (_Gospel Workers_, p. 117). Everywhere He went, He sought opportunities to encourage, help, heal, and enlighten with the gospel. _This_ is witnessing.

#### A Winsome Character

In the fullest sense, witnessing is an expression of who we are. To be faithful witnesses is to represent Christ in all that we do. This will certainly include the mission of sharing the gospel and engaging in outreach to our communities. But it will also include doing acts of kindness, speaking encouraging words, and overlooking the faults of those around us. Attempting to spread the gospel without demonstrations of unselfishness and love will be sadly deficient.

Ellen White emphasizes this powerful aspect of witnessing: “There are many ways in which church members may give the message to those around them. One of the most successful is by living helpful, unselfish, Christian lives. Those who are fighting the battle of life at great odds may be refreshed and strengthened by little attentions which cost nothing. Kindly words simply spoken, little attentions simply bestowed, will sweep away the clouds of temptation and doubt that gather over the soul” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 9, p. 30).

We would do well to place more of an emphasis on Christlike character in witnessing. Perhaps nothing is more vital to soul-winning success than manifesting the fruit of the Spirit in our lives. The Lord Himself declared, “Yes, I have loved you with an everlasting love; therefore with _lovingkindness_ I have _drawn_ you” (Jeremiah 31:3). Kindness and love are attractive. Without these attributes, the Bible says, our words are like a “sounding brass or a clanging cymbal” (1 Corinthians 13:1). With them, our growth could be exponential: “If we would humble ourselves before God, and be kind and courteous and tenderhearted and pitiful, there would be one hundred conversions to the truth where now there is only one” (ibid., p. 189).

While the doctrines of the Bible are logical and true, witnessing requires more than merely convincing the mind. The true science of soul winning is in reaching the heart: “Your success will not depend so much upon your knowledge and accomplishments as upon your ability to find your way to the heart” (_Welfare Ministry_, p. 91). For this reason the truth must be wrapped in sympathy and love. We have the assurance that “while logic may fail to move, and argument be powerless to convince, the love of Christ, revealed in personal ministry, may soften the stony heart, so that the seed of truth can take root” (_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 57).

#### Loving and Lovable

The love of Christ gives a power to our witness that nothing else can. Take a moment to consider Jesus’ manner of witnessing as described in the following quotes:

“Had it not been for the _sweet, sympathetic spirit_ that shone out in every look and word, He would not have attracted the large congregations that He did” (_The Desire of Ages_, p. 254; emphasis supplied).

“Our Savior’s power was not in a strong array of sharp words that would pierce through the very soul; it was His _gentleness_ and His _plain, unassuming manners_ that made Him a conqueror of hearts” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 3, p. 477; emphasis supplied).

“Whatever the evil habits, the strong prejudices, or the overbearing passions of human beings, He met them all with _pitying tenderness_” (_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 165; emphasis supplied).

“He who is shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace will walk as Christ walked. He will be able to speak right words, and to _speak them in love_. He will not try to drive home God’s message of truth. He will _deal tenderly_ with every heart” (_Evangelism_, p. 174; emphasis supplied).

In light of the love of Christ manifested in His every look and word, is it any wonder that He was so effective at winning souls? The followers of Jesus were to be known for the same gentleness and love that made their Master a conqueror of hearts: “By this all will know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another” (John 13:35). Ellen White reiterates and expounds on this truth: “No other influence that can surround the human soul has such power as the influence of an unselfish life. The strongest argument in favor of the gospel is a loving and lovable Christian” (_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 470). Don’t miss this point. The “strongest argument” is not merely an airtight presentation of truth, but a “loving and lovable Christian.”

Just as the unselfish love demonstrated on Calvary was a “sweet-smelling aroma” (Ephesians 5:2), the same love seen in God’s people is what makes their message a sweet fragrance to the world (see 2 Corinthians 2:14-16). “It is the atmosphere of this love surrounding the soul of the believer that makes him a savor of life unto life and enables God to bless his work” (_The Acts of the Apostles_, p. 551).

#### By Beholding

Being a loving and lovable Christian, however, doesn’t happen by chance. For sinful, self-centered people, living to help and bless others doesn’t come naturally: “A noble, all-round character is not inherited. It does not come to us by accident. A noble character is earned by individual effort through the merits and grace of Christ. God gives the talents, the powers of the mind; we form the character. It is formed by hard, stern battles with self” (_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 331). We can be thankful that the Lord doesn’t sugarcoat the process of developing a Christlike character. But just because it doesn’t come easy doesn’t mean it’s out of reach! The secret is to keep our eyes on Jesus. Then, “by beholding we become changed” (ibid., p. 355).

The apostle Paul draws from the story of Moses and God on Mount Sinai to illustrate this principle. During His dialogue with God, Moses had made the radical request “Please, show me Your glory” (Exodus 33:18). To this God responded, “I will make all My goodness pass before you” (verse 19). The glory, or goodness, of God was so awesome to behold that when Moses came down from the mountain, his face was shining like the sun! (see Exodus 34:29, 30). Paul uses this imagery to describe how the Christian’s character may reflect the glory, or goodness, of God by spending time in His presence: “But we all, with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of the Lord” (2 Corinthians 3:18).

The apostle John’s life testified to the truth of this principle: “Such transformation of character as is seen in the life of John is ever the result of communion with Christ. There may be marked defects in the character of an individual, yet when he becomes a true disciple of Christ, the power of divine grace transforms and sanctifies him. Beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, he is changed from glory to glory, until he is like Him whom he adores” (_The Acts of the Apostles_, p. 559). Praise God for His amazing grace! Let us behold Christ so that we too can become like Him whom we adore.

#### Views of Christ

What then does it mean to “behold” Christ? In a sense, any time spent contemplating spiritual realities is time spent beholding Him. Yet it is Scripture that gives us the clearest views of His life and character. This is the “mirror” in which we behold His glory, and by which the Holy Spirit transforms our hearts and lives (see 2 Corinthians 3:18).

Throughout the Bible the glory of Christ is revealed in various ways. Chief among these are the scenes of Jesus’ earthly life and sacrifice: “It would be well to spend a thoughtful hour each day reviewing the life of Christ from the manger to Calvary. We should take it point by point and let the imagination vividly grasp each scene, especially the closing ones of His earthly life. . . . Everything noble and generous in man will respond to the contemplation of Christ upon the cross” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 4, p. 374).

In the Bible’s record of the life of Christ, we behold unselfish love in action. Luke summarized it well when he wrote that “Jesus . . . went about doing good” (Acts 10:38).  Love was not merely a feeling or an emotion to Jesus. It always led Him to action. Character is revealed not merely through our disposition or intentions, but through tangible deeds. Thus Ellen White encourages, “Crowd all the good works you possibly can into this life” (_Christian Service_, p. 85). As we behold Christ from the cradle to the cross, going from one good deed to the next, let us consider how our lives might reflect the life of Jesus.

Another way to behold the character of Christ is to contemplate the fruit of the Spirit: “But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control” (Galatians 5:22, 23). As you meditate on each of these attributes, ask God to manifest them through you. Through the power of His grace, let your love bless others and lead you to labor for their salvation. Let your joy exude enthusiasm and inspire hope. Let your peace make you an anchor of security and strength. Let your long-suffering inspire others to trust in God. Let your kindness attract others and soften their hearts. Let your goodness touch their lives with compassion. Let your faithfulness inspire faith in others. Let your gentleness make you approachable and your self-control give you moral strength. Of course, none of these traits are inherent in the human heart. We can manifest them only as we pray and ask God to fill us with His Spirit.

> <callout></callout>
> Love was not merely a feeling or an emotion to Jesus. It always led Him to action.

One more important way to behold Christ is in His law. “God’s law is the transcript of His character” (_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 305). The Ten Commandments are an expression of unselfish love (see Romans 13:10) because each one requires us to deny self in order to honor God and to respect others. Meditating on the spiritual nature of the law exposes the sin and selfishness that separates us from God and harms our witness (see Psalm 119:97). For example, as we contemplate the meaning of idolatry, it leads us to surrender anything that is stealing our affections from God. Reflecting on the sacredness of the Sabbath, we’re reminded to preserve His holy day for Him. Thoughtfully considering our parents, we’re impressed with ways to respect and care for them. The law convicts us to confess any unresolved bitterness, lustful thoughts, or dishonest practices in our lives. “In giving ourselves to God, we must necessarily give up all that would separate us from Him” (_Steps to Christ_, p. 44). As you meditate on God’s love as revealed in His law, ask Him to write it on your heart and mind, that it may be seen in your character.

#### Living to Win Souls

“True holiness is wholeness in the service of God. . . . He who lives to himself is not a Christian” (_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 48, 49). Herein lies the heart of the matter. To be a Christian is to live for Christ and not ourselves (see 2 Corinthians 5:15; Galatians 2:20). It is to serve and not to be served (see Matthew 20:28). It is to deny ourselves for the salvation of others (see Luke 9:23). When we are made new creatures in Christ, it changes our reason for living. While before we lived only for ourselves, as disciples of Christ we share the singular purpose of our Master: “We should live in this world to win souls to the Savior” (_Christian Service_, p. 270).

Do you live to bless others and win them to the Savior? Living merely for ourselves will never satisfy: “There can be no growth or fruitfulness in the life that is centered in self. If you have accepted Christ as a personal Savior, you are to forget yourself, and try to help others. Talk of the love of Christ, tell of His goodness. Do every duty that presents itself. Carry the burden of souls upon your heart, and by every means in your power seek to save the lost. As you receive the Spirit of Christ—the Spirit of unselfish love and labor for others—you will grow and bring forth fruit. The graces of the Spirit will ripen in your character. Your faith will increase, your convictions deepen, your love be made perfect. More and more you will reflect the likeness of Christ in all that is pure, noble, and lovely” (_Christ’s Object Lessons_, pp. 67, 68).

Don was a man who lived only for himself. He had always been someone who stood out; as eccentric as they come. He had a drinking problem, a smoking problem, and a significant drug problem. His only pursuit in life was to satisfy his desire for pleasure, but his addictions left him feeling desolate and hopeless. On one occasion Don responded to the invitation of a friend to attend an evangelistic series. When the evangelist saw Don, he could hardly be blamed for not considering him to be a strong interest. Don certainly didn’t look like the church type, and the scent of smoke and alcohol followed him wherever he went. But on the very first night something touched his heart.

After the presentation, Don asked the evangelist if he could give him a hug. He said that he had never heard anything like that in his entire life. He continued to come to the meetings every night, even attending a special session on overcoming addictions. Night by night his dress changed, his scent changed, and God was delivering him from his deadly drug addiction. On the last night of the series, Don was baptized and totally changed the focus of his life. He stopped living with himself as the center. He started actively witnessing and serving the Lord through various ministries. Don had found a new purpose for his life.

What about us? Whether new in the faith or with years of experience, every one of us can fall into the rut of living for ourselves rather than fulfilling God’s purpose for our lives. Let us pray that the Savior would implant in our hearts His true purpose for living. Not merely that He would help us to squeeze an occasional soul-winning activity into our busy lives, but that He would make our lives about winning souls. Not only that God would teach us _how_ to witness, but that He would _make us_ witnesses by the power of the Holy Spirit.