---
title: Why House-to-House Ministry?
subtitle: Chapter 13
---

In Luke 15 Jesus told the parable of the lost sheep, urging His hearers to consider the special efforts that a shepherd is willing to make for his flock. If a shepherd loses one out of 100 sheep, he will leave the 99 in the wilderness to “go after the one which is lost until he finds it” (Luke 15:4). The implication is clear. If a shepherd is willing to put forth such earnest effort to rescue an animal, how much more should we make active, diligent efforts to search for wayward souls? Those who are lost in the darkness of this world need our help to find their way to the light of truth.

Jesus Himself is the Good Shepherd, who searches for His lost sheep: “For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost” (Luke 19:10). In this Jesus was setting an example for His disciples, whom He would send out to do the same work: “After these things the Lord appointed seventy others also, and sent them two by two before His face into every city and place where He Himself was about to go” (Luke 10:1). Ellen White further detailed this work: “The disciples were to work earnestly for souls, giving to all the invitation of mercy. They were not to wait for the people to come to them; they were to go to the people with their message” (The Acts of Apostles, p. 28). So it is today. We are not to wait for the people to come to us. Instead Jesus urges us, “Go into the highways, and as many as you find, invite” (Matthew 22:9).

#### Public Efforts Aren’t Enough

The apostle Paul, often considered the greatest evangelist in the early Christian church, did not rely only on the public proclamation of the gospel in order to reach the people. He told the church at Ephesus, “I kept back nothing that was helpful, but proclaimed it to you, and taught you publicly and from house to house” (Acts 20:20). Ellen White highlighted the apostle’s balanced approach, which was a combination of both public and personal evangelism: “The apostle’s efforts were not confined to public speaking; there were many who could not have been reached in that way. He spent much time in house-to-house labor, thus availing himself of the familiar intercourse of the home circle” (The Acts of Apostles, p. 250).

The key reason the apostle did not confine his work to public speaking was that “there were many who could not have been reached in that way.” The same is true today. Throughout her writings Ellen White affirms the importance of personal labor and of visiting the homes of those in our communities in search of lost sheep:

“Of equal importance with special public efforts is house-to-house work in the homes of the people. In large cities there are certain classes that cannot be reached by public meetings. These must be searched out as the shepherd searches for his lost sheep. Diligent, personal effort must be put forth in their behalf. When personal work is neglected, many precious opportunities are lost, which, were they improved, would advance the work decidedly” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 9, p. 111).

“Wherever a church is established, all the members should engage actively in missionary work. They should visit every family in the neighborhood, and know their spiritual condition” (ibid., vol. 6, p. 296).

“This house-to-house labor, searching for souls, hunting for the lost sheep, is the most essential work that can be done” (_Evangelism_, p. 431).

#### Addressing Common Questions

Many sincere Christians have questions or concerns about the wisdom and effectiveness of house-to-house labor. Before addressing these, it is important to note that when Ellen White uses the term “house-to-house” she is not always referring to “cold calling,” or making unsolicited visits to people’s homes. Sometimes her counsel refers to visiting people who have expressed an interest in spiritual matters.

Such was the case with Mike and Irene, a couple who had responded to a flyer and were attending a public evangelistic series. While they seemed interested, they also kept to themselves and never made any decisions when appeals were made. Eventually the evangelist visited them in their home. There in the living room Mike and Irene shared the details of Irene’s mother’s death. They also shared the loneliness that they both felt without any close friends. They were moved by the evangelist’s visit and the personal concern he expressed. The evangelist and faithful members of the church continued to visit Mike and Irene in their home, and the couple was eventually baptized. This experience helps to illustrate the wisdom of Ellen White’s counsel. Public ministry is important, but it can never replace the personal influence of home visitation.

> <callout></callout>
> “Visit every family in the neighborhood.”

Still, to visit those who are spiritually interested is not the only type of house-to-house visitation recommended in the writings of Ellen White. She sometimes includes not only the homes of those who are interested, but every home, such as her counsel to “visit every family in the neighborhood.” It is this type of labor that seems to be less popular among many members. Their feelings are expressed with questions and concerns, such as: “Does knocking on doors really work in today’s culture?” “Why would I knock on someone else’s door if I don’t want anyone knocking on mine?” “Wouldn’t going door to door make people associate us with Mormons or Jehovah’s Witnesses?” For those who share these questions and concerns, here are some important factors to consider about house-to-house ministry:

**Inspired Counsel and Biblical Examples Encourage it**—When we weigh any ministry method, we must give proper weight to the inspired counsel found in the Bible and the writings of Ellen White. While the cultural context has changed since the days of Jesus, Paul, and Ellen White, we would be unwise to set aside their examples and abundant counsel. The inspired principle of personal ministry and searching for lost sheep continues to be applicable today.

**It May Be the Only Way to Reach Some People**—It is true that visiting homes unsolicited may not be the best method to reach most people. However, there may be some people who will not be reached in any other way. If we make ourselves available, perhaps God will use us to find some of His lost sheep: “Jesus knows us individually, and is touched with the feeling of our infirmities. He knows us all by name. He knows the very house in which we live, the name of each occupant. He has at times given directions to His servants to go to a certain street in a certain city, to such a house, to find one of His sheep” (_The Desire of Ages_, p. 479).

**Secular Organizations Do It Because It Works**—From politicians to corporations, door-to-door efforts are still used regularly. The heart of the “ground game” so vital to the success of many political campaigns is door-to-door canvassing. Yet everyone knows that interrupting people’s lives to tell them about something they may not be interested in is often unwanted and uncomfortable. So why do these secular groups do it? Because it works. Many people may have thought briefly about an issue or product, but their busy lives have kept them from looking into it. A face-to-face encounter can cause them to do just that. In the same way, many people have had fleeting thoughts about religion that only a face-to-face encounter could lead them to consider more seriously. For example, a much higher percentage of people will accept an offer for Bible studies given by someone at the door than will generally do so if the offer comes in the mail.

**Religious Groups Do It Because It Works**—There are many ways in which Seventh-day Adventists may choose to be different from Mormons or Jehovah’s Witnesses, but door-to-door ministry should not really be one of them. It is an undisputed fact that these groups continue to be, at least partly as a result of their aggressive witnessing strategies, among the fastest growing denominations. We should consider how the converts won to these groups could have been won to the three angels’ messages.

**You Can Use It to Build Relationships**—If you are concerned that the people in your community may not be receptive to door-to-door offers for Bible study or invitations to church events, you could begin building relationships by simply offering prayer or other helpful services. And regardless of what you offer, you can make positive impressions on the people you visit by manifesting sincere kindness, humility, politeness, and respect for their wishes. Consider leaving behind a thoughtful and practical gift. Show that you care for them and desire their good. This was Christ’s method.

**It Can Be Beneficial When Done in Different Ways**—Even without knocking on anyone’s door, churches can leave Bible study offer cards, event flyers, and truth-filled literature outside every door in the community. When enough members do this, it has the benefit of engaging them in mission work while also saving on the cost of mailing. As mentioned previously, another variation from “cold calling” is follow-up visitation. Those who express interest in Bible studies or other programs should receive personal visits, as should those who visit our church or attend cooking schools, evangelistic meetings, or other events. This beneficial form of “house-to-house” labor should not be neglected.

#### Into the Streets and Lanes

There are people all over the world, and in every community, who are searching for God and eternity. Yet while the “harvest truly is plentiful” (Matthew 9:37), it’s also true that those who are open to biblical truth are in the minority on this sinful planet. That means the majority of those we visit from house to house will likely decline our offers. But should fear of rejection, or of failure, or of what people might think, prevent us from trying? Remember that Jesus “came to His own, and His own did not receive Him” (John 1:11). He knows what it’s like to face rejection. Though He suffered and died to give salvation to all, He did it knowing that there would be “few who find it” (Matthew 7:14). We can be thankful that Jesus didn’t allow the cold rejections of the many to deter Him from saving the few. And He will imbue us, when we pray and give ourselves to Him, with the same spirit of love and sacrifice for others.

> <callout></callout>
> What if no one had ever knocked on her door?

In one small Adventist church a group of youth and young adults decided to offer Bible studies from door to door in the community. One of the apartments they visited was occupied by a young woman named Amy, who had been going through a series of difficulties in her life. Amy was so impressed by the kindness shown to her by the young person at her door that she agreed to take Bible studies. After joining a group Bible study at the home of a local church member, Amy was soon baptized and became an active member of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. Naturally of a meek and gentle disposition, Amy was well liked by everyone. But at the young age of 40 she died of leukemia. Sad as it was to lose such a bright light from this dark world, her friends were at least thankful that their grief could be mingled with the hope of eternity. What if no one had ever knocked on her door?

House-to-house ministry has a valuable role in reaching our communities and fulfilling the mission of the church. When other methods have been tried, and still there is room in the Master’s house, we are to “go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city” (Luke 14:21) and bring the people to Jesus. We are to “go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in” (verse 23), that His house may be filled. We are 
to “go” into our communities and “preach the gospel to every creature” (Mark 16:15). We are not to wait for the people to come to us. “From door to door His servants are to proclaim the message of salvation” (_Gospel Workers_, p. 29).