---
title: The Sabbath
---

After the six days of Creation, God rested on the seventh day and instituted the Sabbath for all people as a memorial of Creation. The fourth commandment of God’s law requires the observance of this seventh-day Sabbath as the day of rest, worship, and ministry in harmony with the teaching and practice of Jesus, the Lord of the Sabbath. Genesis 2:1-3; Exodus 20:8-11; Mark 2:27, 28; Luke 4:16.

The Sabbath is a day of delightful communion with God and one another. It is a symbol of our redemption in Christ, a sign of our sanctification, a token of our allegiance, and a foretaste of our eternal future in God’s kingdom. The Sabbath is the perpetual sign of God’s eternal covenant between Him and His people. Isaiah 56:5, 6; 58:13, 14; 66:22, 23; Matthew 12:1-12; Exodus 31:13-17; Ezekiel 20:12, 20; Deuteronomy 5:12-15.

The Sabbath is to be observed on the biblical seventh day, which extends from sundown Friday evening until sundown Saturday evening. Genesis 1:5; Leviticus 23:32; Nehemiah 13:19; Mark 1:32.

Bible prophecy reveals that a sinister power, commonly referred to as the antichrist, would “intend to change times and law.” This prophecy was fulfilled when the medieval church claimed to change the sacredness of the Sabbath from the seventh to the first day of the week—a change for which there is no scriptural support. Sunday would eventually become the commonly accepted day of worship among Christians, and many people will no doubt be in heaven who unwittingly erred in regarding Sunday as the Sabbath through the centuries. Yet as truth is restored at the end of time, God’s people who were previously unaware of the false teachings of spiritual “Babylon”—a prophetic symbol of the antichrist and those teaching like errors—will “come out of her” to follow the truth, including the Bible Sabbath. Daniel 7:8, 25; 2 Thessalonians 2:3-10; Revelation 13:1-7; 17:1-6; 18:1-4.

One of the identifying characteristics of God’s end-time people is their allegiance to His commandments, which include the command to keep the seventh-day Sabbath holy. Revelation 12:17; 14:9-12.

The Sabbath commandment tells us to refrain from common labor, and from hiring others to do the same. Even so, Jesus said it was lawful to do good on the Sabbath, citing the example of pulling an ox out of a ditch. Throughout His ministry, Jesus provided both physical and spiritual healing on the Sabbath. Labor that deals with emergency situations, care for the suffering, or spiritual ministry is therefore in harmony with the sacredness of the Sabbath. Common labor, even when done out of kindness—such as building a house for someone in need—does not fit the example Jesus gave of the kind of good deeds that are lawful on the Sabbath. Exodus 20:8-11; 23:12; 34:21; Matthew 12:11, 12; Luke 6:9; 4:31-39; John 5:1-15.

Buying and selling on the Sabbath is referred to in Scripture as profaning the Sabbath day. Engaging in commerce should be avoided on the Sabbath except in emergency situations. Nehemiah 13:15-19.

Throughout the week we should keep the Sabbath in view so we will be prepared to enter its sacred hours. The Bible calls Friday the Preparation Day, a final opportunity to get ready for the Sabbath (fueling cars, buying groceries, cleaning house, etc.). Mark 15:42; Exodus 16:22, 23.

The Sabbath is for delighting in the Lord—spiritual worship, fel- lowship, and service. We should refrain from personal hobbies that are not spiritual in nature (sporting events, home projects, etc.) on the one day the Lord has asked us to keep holy for building our relationship with Him. Isaiah 58:13, 14; Leviticus 23:3.

**My Commitment**: _By the grace of God I desire to keep the Sabbath holy from Friday sundown to Saturday sundown, enjoying the spiritual blessings of worship, fellowship, and service. In harmony with this observance, I choose to refrain from secular work or activities, buying or selling, or hiring others to perform common labor on the Sabbath._