---
title: Nature Nurtures
subtitle: Week 5
---

“What could our lives and our children’s lives be like if our days and nights were as immersed in nature as they are in technology?”<sup>4</sup> asks Richard Louv, author of the book _Last Child in the Woods: Saving Our Children From Nature-Deficit Disorder_. Many children (and adults) would find that if they spent more time in nature, their physical, mental, and spiritual health would improve. Research also shows that children who have a “play-based” childhood rather than a “screen-based” childhood receive many far-reaching benefits.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ On an average day, do you spend more time inside or outside?
+ Do you notice a change in your baby when you take them outside?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

Jesus often withdrew from the big crowds to quiet places in nature where He could pray. What do these Bible passages show about nature? Luke 5:16; 6:12, 13; Matthew 5:1; Mark 2:13; Luke 22:39-42; 24:13-16; John 21:4-6.

Not only did Jesus like to spend time in nature to renew and strengthen Himself spiritually, but He taught and preached while in nature and often used nature to explain spiritual truths (consider His many parables). We too can feel close to God when we’re in nature. We see evidence of the Creator God and His love and care for us and His world when we’re in nature.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect

+ What is a personal challenge for you in the following quotes?

> “Next to the Bible, nature is to be our great lesson book” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 45).

> “The whole natural world is designed to be an interpreter of the things of God” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 45).

> “On every leaf of the forest and stone of the mountains, in every shining star, in earth and sea and sky, God’s name was written” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 45).

> “Let the mother … find time to cultivate in herself and her children a love for the beautiful things of nature” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 48).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Additional Thoughts

^[Blue and green should often be seen.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) Research shows that teens are 55 percent less likely to develop a mental illness if they grow up with access to a green space (trees) or blue space (water).<sup>5</sup>

^[Touch nature.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) Encourage your child to run barefoot on the grass, dirt, or sand. Research is beginning to reveal that being in nature helps people to stabilize emotionally. Other benefits of being outside in nature include better immunity, less depression, and studying the beauty and perfection of nature strengthens the mind in deep, creative ways.

^[Grow a garden]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) with your child, if possible. Grow vegetables and fruit and allow your child to pick and eat straight from the garden. This will not only expand their palate but teach much about God’s world. Talk about the worms that allow air and water into the soil, and the sunlight and rain that help the plants to grow.

^[Walk and talk.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) Jesus taught His disciples while outdoors, often walking. When we walk, we are often away from the distractions of work or house chores. We can focus on conversation and each other. Modeling this to your baby, even if they don’t yet engage in conversation, is important. Remember that the Bible and nature were Jesus’ textbooks.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss:

+ What might you do to explore more outdoor spaces with your baby?
+ What new textures (sand, soil, grass, water) could you expose your little one to? 

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-04-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Thank God for something specific that you are grateful for in His creation.\
Commit to spending more time in nature with your baby this week.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

This week, for a deeper dive into the benefits of sharing nature with your child, read chapters 6 and 7 of _Child Guidance_.

---

{"style":{"text":{"size": "xs"}}}
<sup>4</sup> Children and Nature Network, What Is Nature-Deficit Disorder? www.childrenandnature.org. \
<sup>5</sup> Being Surrounded by Green Space in Childhood May Improve Mental Health of Adults, ScienceDaily, accessed June 25, 2024.