---
title: The Power of Invitation
subtitle: Chapter 6
---

One of the most interesting facets of the life and ministry of Jesus was His prolific use of questions. He asked questions He knew people wouldn’t answer. He asked questions to which He already knew the answers. He asked questions in response to those who asked Him questions. In short, Jesus asked a lot of questions!

At times Jesus asked questions to draw out people’s desires or to offer them something better than their current condition. He asked two blind men, “What do you want Me to do for you?” (Matthew 20:32). He offered hope to a paralyzed man with the words “Do you want to be made well?” (John 5:6). Sometimes Jesus would offer an invitation in a more direct manner than simply asking a question. “Come and see” (John 1:39), “Follow Me” (John 1:43), or “Come, follow Me” (Luke 18:22) were statements meant to encourage the hearer to take Him up on the offer. Sometimes they did, such as the first disciples, and sometimes they didn’t, like the rich young ruler. But Jesus was never afraid to ask.

Consider again Ellen White’s highly instructive description of Jesus’ method of ministry: “Christ’s method alone will give true success in reaching the people. The Savior mingled with men as one who desired their good. He showed His sympathy for them, ministered to their needs, and won their confidence. Then He bade them, ‘Follow Me’ ” (_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 143). This beautiful depiction of the ministry of Jesus has often been cited for its helpful emphasis on showing sympathy for others and ministering to their needs. But equally significant are those final words: “Then He bade them, ‘Follow Me.’ ” _Bade_ is of course past tense for _bid_, which is a somewhat dated word that means to offer or invite. “Then He _invited_ them.” Jesus ministered to people, but He didn’t stop there. The regular use of spiritual invitations was central to His method of winning souls, and it should be central to ours, too.

#### Just Ask

The power of invitation was not limited to the ministry of Jesus. The first disciples followed His example with great success. “Andrew . . . first found his own brother Simon. . . . And he brought him to Jesus” (John 1:40-42). Who knows if we would have had Peter, the great apostle, if it were not for his persuasive brother Andrew, who brought him to Jesus! Philip was another successful evangelist, enticing his friend Nathanael to investigate the Messiah for himself with the words “Come and see” (John 1:46). Ellen White asserted that we could learn a valuable lesson from Andrew and Philip yet today: “These examples should teach us the importance of personal effort, of making direct appeals to our kindred, friends, and neighbors” (_The Desire of Ages_, p. 141). Not only Jesus and His first disciples, but new converts such as the woman of Samaria also utilized the power of invitation. She urged the men of her city: “Come, see a Man who told me all things that I ever did. Could this be the Christ?” The Scripture reveals the effectiveness of her invitation: “Then they went out of the city and came to Him” (John 4:29, 30).

> <callout></callout>
> Even better than a simple invitation is an offer to bring someone with you.

It has been consistently proven that the people most likely to become baptized members of the church are those who were personally invited to Sabbath School, church, a Bible study, or some other church event. There is simply no substitute for personal ministry. For many people the comfort of knowing that someone they trust will be attending an event is just the encouragement they need to come to it themselves. Even better than a simple invitation is an offer to bring someone with you—just as Andrew brought his brother to see Jesus. And when it comes to an event that’s a continuing series, those who attend in response to a personal invitation are far more likely to continue to the end.

Inviting people to a church service or event is easy. Consider this simple canvass:

> “Have you heard about our upcoming prophecy seminar? I’ve been looking forward to it for a while now. Here’s a flyer with all the dates and topics. I’m planning on being there for every session, so if you’re interested, I’d be happy to pick you up, and we could go together. Do you think you might be able to come?”

In many cases, offering to pick your friends up is exactly what is needed to make them feel comfortable and to ensure their attendance. Yet don’t apply too much pressure, as they may prefer to come alone.

Many members feel even less comfortable about asking people to study the Bible with them than they feel about inviting them to attend an event. But asking for Bible studies doesn’t need to be complicated. Consider this canvass:

> “Have you heard about our free Bible studies? Here’s the first study guide in the series and a sign-up card if you’re interested. You can study on your own, or I’d love to go through the study guides together with you. Is that something you might be interested in?”

Another simple and effective way to ask people if they would be interested in Bible studies is based on the approach of Jesus with the woman of Samaria (see John 4:1-42). In most cases Jesus ministered to people’s needs in order to win their confidence. But with the Samaritan woman, He asked her for a favor instead. “Give me a drink” (verse 7) was His request. By being vulnerable and _trusting her_ to meet one of His own needs, Jesus led her to _trust Him_ to meet hers. In some circumstances we can offend the pride of others if we presume to be their teacher and act as if we don’t need anything ourselves. But we do have needs. One of the most important is to learn how to share our faith better. So why not ask for a favor? Say: “I’m reading a book [or taking a class] about sharing my faith, and it strongly encourages me to find someone who will go through a series of Bible studies with me. I have a great set of study guides, but I’m looking for someone to go through them with me. It would take only about an hour a week. Do you think you might be willing?”

Faith was a church member who learned about this method and decided to give it a try. She called her youngest son and told him that she was taking a class to learn how to share the Bible, and she was supposed to practice on someone. Faith asked her son if he would let her practice on him, to which he said yes! While she was at it, she asked if perhaps his wife would want to join them, and received the same response. After a couple weeks of study, Faith’s oldest son walked through the door and asked what was going on. Faith gave him the same offer, and soon he was studying too. Her grandson’s girlfriend was later added to the group. In the end everyone in the group was blessed by the study, and her grown children were baptized. It was quite a result from her first Bible study!

When it comes down to it, there are really only three ways to get someone you know to study the Bible with you, or to come to a church service, or attend a church event. You may want to get a highlighter out for this, because it’s kind of profound:

1. You can ask them in the morning.
2. You can ask them in the afternoon.
3. You can ask them in the evening.

OK, maybe that’s a little simplistic. And perhaps someone will stumble into the church by chance every once in a great while. But the only way to find a Bible study interest or to get someone to attend a church service or event is to ask. While we may avoid rejection if we never extend an invitation, it’s equally true that no one will say yes to an invitation we never give.

So just ask!

#### Plant With Purpose

Disciple-making is a process in which every phase is essential, and effective soul winners are always looking ahead to the next step. While they’re _preparing_ the soil of the heart with friendship, at the same time they’re planning when they will begin to _plant_ seeds of truth. While they’re involved in seed-sowing ministries, they have in view the _cultivation_ phase of ongoing Bible studies. The idea is that planting seeds is not an end in itself. Every time we share our testimony or truth-filled literature with others, we should be aiming toward one day involving the individual in regular Bible studies. This is called planting with purpose. And it’s why growing churches regularly offer invitations to everyone in their sphere of influence to explore the Bible further.

The primary types of invitations used to guide interests from an initial spiritual exposure (the _plant_ phase) to a more in-depth study of the Bible (the _cultivate_ phase) are Bible study invitations, Sabbath School and church invitations, and church event invitations (e.g., evangelistic meetings, retreats, camp meeting, etc.). Here are some practical ways to employ these invitations on a consistent basis:

**Personal Invitations**—Keep a list of friends, family members, coworkers, classmates, neighbors, community acquaintances, and church interests for whom you feel a spiritual burden. Regularly pray over the names on this list and ask God to prepare their hearts for a special invitation. Remember, it never hurts to offer, and it has potential for eternal gain. If a person says no, that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t have offered. The Lord knocks on the door of the heart again and again. Keep praying and try another invitation after some time has passed, perhaps this time to something different. Always speak positively and persuasively of the blessing to be gained by accepting your invitation. The Lord promises to be with you as you labor to bring souls to Him (see Matthew 28:20).

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
For a simple way to keep a list of spiritual interests, download “Praying for You” and “Operation Andrew” cards at www.grow.adventist.org.

**Bible Study Offers at Church Events and Services**—Some of the strongest spiritual interests are those who attend our church services and events. In a simple and nonintimidating way, you can offer Bible studies to every church visitor or event guest. Simply ask the question mentioned earlier in this chapter: “Have you heard about our free Bible studies?” Then leave them with the first lesson in a series of Bible study guides along with a card they can use to sign up for the full series.

**Door-to-Door Invitations**—Sometimes we need to go where the people are. This is the power of door-to-door ministry, and it can be very effective. You can personally go to the homes in your neighborhood or organize your church for outreach (see chapters 13-15). When a large number of church members are mobilized, thousands of Bible study offer or event flyers can be delivered throughout your church’s territory in a surprisingly short amount of time.

**Bible Study Offers With Literature**—Every piece of literature should be combined with an invitation to take Bible studies. Many sharing books and tracts include free offers on the back page, but you may want to consider something more prominent. Tuck a tract or card, one with the singular purpose of offering Bible studies, inside the front cover. Or affix a label offering Bible studies onto the front or back cover of tracts, books, and magazines. Be sure anything you utilize is either designed by a professional or looks like it is.

**Bible Study Offers With Media**—When you’re sharing audio or video sermons, it’s a good idea to include a link to an online offer for free Bible studies. The same link can be used whether posting on social media or texting with a friend. You could also put the link to the free offer into the body of an email or include it as part of your regular email signature.

**Advertise Free Bible Study Offer Website**—Advertise a website that accepts local requests for free Bible studies and assigns them to your local church for follow-up (such as www.biblestudyoffer.com). Leave tracts and cards with the website address wherever you go, and place flyers in waiting rooms around town. Send a mass mailing of Bible study request cards into your neighborhood or church territory. Utilize yard signs, car stickers, posters, signs, and billboards. Use online advertising to target those searching for phrases such as “Bible study” and social media advertising to spread the news even further. With a website that offers free Bible studies, you always have an open door to receive Bible study requests. Remember, the more spiritual interests you find, the more disciples you will make.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
To get more information on how biblestudyoffer.com can be used in your local church’s Bible study ministry, visit www.biblestudyoffer.com/info.

**Future Event Flyers at Current Events**—A lot of churches print flyers to advertise their events, but the problem is _when_ they print them. Churches should know the dates and locations of their upcoming events and have invitation flyers prepared _months_ in advance. The reason for this is that at every event, we must be ready to invite the attendees to the next few events. Much is lost when we fail to take advantage of this opportunity.

**Interest List Mailings**—The church’s list of spiritual interests is another fertile field in which spiritual seeds can be sown. Send periodic invitation letters with event flyers to your interest list. You may be surprised to find people at your events who you thought were no longer interested.

#### Say, “Come!”

One of the most compelling invitations in all the Bible is given in the final chapter: “And the Spirit and the bride say, ‘Come!’ And let him who hears say, ‘Come!’ And let him who thirsts come. Whoever desires, let him take the water of life freely” (Revelation 22:17). This text reveals a loving invitation from the Spirit of God to receive the water of life. But a careful reading reveals something more.

The Holy Spirit and the bride give an open invitation to come. But those who hear the invitation are not only to “come,” but to “say, ‘Come!’ ” In other words, those who respond to the invitation are called to extend the same invitation to others.

> <callout></callout>
> We are to sow invitations bountifully, and beside all waters.

Ellen White points out this responsibility in plain terms: “The charge to give this invitation includes the entire church. Everyone who has heard the invitation is to echo the message from hill and valley, saying, ‘Come’ ” (_The Acts of the Apostles_, p. 110). The job of inviting people to hear and receive the gospel belongs to everyone who has heard the gospel. We are to sow invitations bountifully, and beside all waters. Every member is to experience personally the power of invitation.

Sometimes people just need a personal touch. Consider Susan, a woman whose life had left her feeling bitter over many things. Deep down, she was looking for hope. In the lead up to an evangelistic series, a nearby church engaged in a broad advertising campaign. Susan saw many of the advertising offers. While taking the bus, she saw a beautiful advertisement and promptly ignored it. She then received a full-color, graphically pleasing brochure in the mail. She promptly threw it into the recycling bin. A day later she was watching television and saw a 30-second commercial inviting people to come to the series. Once again, she ignored it.

The next day one of Susan’s neighbors came to her door. That neighbor happened to be a member of a local Seventh-day Adventist church, and she was a friend of Susan’s. The friend personally invited Susan, using the same brochure she had received in the mail, to the evangelistic series. This time Susan placed that brochure on her refrigerator and made a decision to attend the series. She attended every night and was eventually baptized. We cannot depend upon advertising to make invitations for us. Yes, using multiple forms of advertising is important and probably helped even in Susan’s case. But there is nothing like a personal invitation. Because that church member gave a personal invitation, Susan gave her heart to Christ and became part of the family of God.

Take time to consider the people you know. Is there a friend you could invite to church or to an evangelistic series? Is there a regular church visitor who has perhaps never received an offer to take Bible studies? What about neighbors, coworkers, classmates, or even family members? Pray and ask God to give you courage and strength to invite others to know Christ for themselves. You’ve accepted the invitation; now it’s time to offer it.

Let him who hears say, “Come!”