---
title: "Cure for Hezekitis: How to Reach and Retain the Younger Generation"
---

_Gary Blanchard_

How do we reach and retain the younger generation? Without a doubt this is one of the biggest questions being asked by parents, youth leaders, teachers, and church administrators around the world. Especially as we hear reports that between 60 and 70 percent of our youth disappear from active church life in their 20s and never return. Interestingly, but not shockingly, the reason for this crisis is clearly spelled out for us in the Word of God. Go figure!

In Isaiah 38 we learn about the God-fearing King Hezekiah, who was diagnosed with a terminal illness but by the grace of God was healed and given 15 more years of life (verse 5). However, in the next chapter we learn that visitors from Babylon came to “congratulate” him on his recovery, and in an act of complete stupidity King Hezekiah showed them all the treasures of the kingdom (Isaiah 39:1, 2). When the delegation left, Isaiah the prophet confronted the king, prophesying that the Babylonians would return, take the treasures for themselves, and kidnap and castrate their kids, making them slaves in Babylon.

Now, notice Kings Hezekiah’s shocking response to this terrible news! “‘This message you have given me from the Lord is good.’ For the king was thinking, ‘At least there will be peace and security during my lifetime’” (Isaiah 39:8, NLT).

Why are we losing so many young people today? Why are they being dragged away from the church and assimilated into the world? Because this kind of attitude, we will call it Hezekitis, is also coming from the older generation! Notice that King Hezekiah was a godly man and was one of the greatest kings Israel ever had, but like many godly church leaders today, he was more concerned about the present, about his generation, and gave little thought to the future and those who would one day lead!

Sadly, it was during the extra 15 years of life God had granted him that Hezekiah and his wife had a child that would become one of the most wicked kings in Israel’s history! He was godless, lawless, and heartless, and the Bible testifies that he became a leader who “led them [Israel] to do even more evil than the pagan nations that the Lord had destroyed when the people of Israel entered the land” (2 Kings 21:9, NLT).

Currently in the United States everything from guns to drugs is being blamed for the state of affairs among our nation’s youth. Violence is high, and you can’t watch the news without another school shooting or violent act being committed by the younger generation. Of course, this reality is reflected in other countries as well, but few are aware of the real systemic problem behind the moral free fall among the younger generation. It is the conviction of this writer that Hezekitis is the problem—like King Hezekiah, we are either preoccupied with our own generation or unconscious of the desperate need of the younger generation for our proactive attention. Among this generation is a deep need realized or not for spiritual fathers—an older generation who cares for the lives and souls of the up-and-coming Manassehs (millennials and Generation Z).

But there is great news! God has a cure for Hezekitis and real hope for a Manasseh generation! God’s Word predicts that just before His return, He will send “Elijah the prophet,” who will “turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers” (Malachi 4:5, 6, NKJV). Interestingly. Ellen White compares Elijah to those living at the end of time. She writes, “Elijah was a type of the saints who will be living on the earth at the time of the second advent of Christ and who will be ‘changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump,’ without tasting of death.”<sup>1</sup> So just before the return of Christ, God will raise up a generation that will cure His church of Hezekitis as they wholeheartedly pursue intergenerational youth ministry.

Elijah the prophet was without question one of the greatest youth leaders in the Old Testament. He was a godly man like Hezekiah, but one who cared for the younger generation and did more than just preach “total youth involvement.” Elijah “rolled up his sleeves” and invested compassionately into the younger generation as if the future of the church depended upon it! Elijah understood that effective youth ministry is intergenerational, and he did three profound but simple things to cure Hezekitis!

### Care

First, he cared for them. You will remember when the widow of Zarephath’s son died, it was Elijah that carried the boy’s body upstairs, stretched himself over him three times, and cried out to God to bring him to life. Intergenerational ministry follows a simple formula—proximity + prayer = revival. When the older generation builds close relationships with the younger generation (proximity) and cries out earnestly for their spiritual revival (prayer), supernatural things happen! You will remember, in Ezekiel 37, that it was only after Ezekiel prayed for the Spirit to revive the dry bones that the army of God came to life (verse 10). I believe this prophesy applies specifically to our army of youth, but that’s another article. Caring for this generation is about praying earnestly for their spiritual revival as we pursue close relationships with them.

I love how Ellen White herself appeals for more proximity and prayer in regard to intergenerational youth ministry: “The youth are the objects of Satan’s special attacks; but kindness, courtesy, and the sympathy which flows from a heart filled with love to Jesus will gain their confidence, and save them from many a snare of the enemy. . . . There must be more study given to the problem of how to deal with the youth, more earnest prayer for the wisdom that is needed in dealing with minds. . . . We should seek to enter into the feelings of the youth, sympathizing with them in their joys and sorrows, their conflicts and victories. . . . We must meet them where they are, if we would help them. . . . Let us remember the claim of God upon us to make the path to heaven bright and attractive.”<sup>2</sup>

#### Helpful Resources

The General Conference Youth Department has an excellent resource that will help you, your church, conference, union, and division become more effective and intentional about caring for the younger generation and curing the Hezekitis among us. The resource is called Intergenerational Churches of Refuge, or iCOR. It is a resource that church leaders can study preferable with their leadership teams in order to care intentionally and effectively for the younger generation. You can download the resource for free at youth.adventist.org. Also stay tuned for training opportunities at @gcyouthministries and youth.adventist.org.

### Challenge

Second, Elijah challenged them. On Mount Carmel he did not preach smooth and comfortable messages. Instead he shook the younger generation up by challenging them to get off the fence and follow the Lord wholeheartedly. “If the Lord is God, follow him! But if Baal is God, then follow him,” he declared (1 Kings 18:21, NLT).

Once a young man was sitting on the fence and Jesus approached him, challenging him to get off the fence and follow Him wholeheartedly. The young man said, “No, thank You, Jesus; I want to remain on the fence.” Jesus went away sad. Next the devil appeared to the young man and invited him to follow him wholeheartedly as well. The young man replied in the same way, “No, thank you, I am going to remain on the fence.” The devil smiled and said, “That’s OK, young man, you can remain on the fence. After all, I own the fence!”

Yes, the younger generation needs to know that Jesus loves them, that His grace covers their sins, and that justification is theirs by faith alone and not by works. But where are the challenging messages today? Where are the messages calling young people to live holy lives for God, to keep His Sabbath, to live pure, to grow in grace, to be Spirit-filled and sanctified? Where is the challenge to live counterculture for Jesus even when it’s dangerous? Where are the messages calling for health reform, mission service, tithing responsibility, and respect for religious and political authority? Maybe you’ve noticed that we feature tons of David testimonies but few Joseph and Daniel stories of God’s grace. Moreover, where are the warning messages that the end is near and that faith as well as repentance is required of those who wish to be saved?

Ellen White writes: “The smooth sermons so often preached make no lasting impression: the trumpet does not give a certain sound. Men are not cut to the heart by the plain, sharp truths of God’s Word. . . . When will the voice of faithful rebuke be heard once more in the church? . . . If they were not so rare, we should see more of the power of God revealed among men. . . . It is not from love for their neighbor that they smooth down the message entrusted to them, but because they are self-indulgent and ease-loving. True love seeks first the honor of God and the salvation of souls. . . . God calls for men like Elijah, Nathan, and John the Baptist—men who will bear His message with faithfulness, regardless of the consequences; men who will speak the truth bravely, though it call for the sacrifice of all they have.”<sup>3</sup>

I believe it was the great Charles Spurgeon that warned, “A time will come when instead of shepherds feeding the sheep the church will have clowns entertaining the goats.” Oh, Lord, how we need church leaders who will courageously challenge the younger generation the way Elijah did!

#### Helpful Resources

There is no better resource for this than Scripture and Spirit of Prophecy. We encourage leaders around the world to learn from credible Christian authors, but always prioritizing Scripture and Spirit of Prophecy! We challenge Adventist youth leaders to make young disciples for Christ, teaching them to “obey all” that Jesus taught, even the countercultural and dangerous truths (Matthew 28:19, 20).

### Call

Third, Elijah called young people. In the eyes of most, Elijah was an example of ministry success. After all, he was well loved and respected by the church, but apparently in the eyes of God his ministry was incomplete. In 1 Kings 19:16 God “commands” him to pass on leadership to the younger generation! Someone once said, “No success without a successor,” and apparently God agrees. Ellen White writes, “As Elijah, divinely directed in seeking a successor, passed the field in which Elisha was plowing, he cast upon the young man’s shoulders the mantle of consecration.”<sup>4</sup>

Like many of us, Elijah seems to have obeyed God’s command here halfheartedly. I may be wrong with this assumption, but you will remember that when he found Elisha, he threw the mantle over him and kept walking (1 Kings 19:19). This seems to be the common way we mentor young people today. Instead of training them for ministry and giving them responsibilities they can handle, we throw the mantle over them and shout, “Sink or swim, kid. Don’t let us down; after all, you are the church of today!” But calling the younger generation into ministry and leadership is about passing it on, not dumping it on them! Jesus took the young people on His ministry team through a process that took three years. He began with observation (watch Me do it), then participation (help Me do it), and finally activation (you do it). Elijah did the same thing over a period of several years. Sister White writes, “Ministry comprehends far more than preaching the Word. It means training young men as Elijah trained Elisha, taking them from their ordinary duties, and giving them responsibilities to bear in God’s work—small responsibilities at first, and larger ones as they gain strength and experience.”<sup>5</sup>

Thankfully, Elijah grew to be an amazing mentor to Elisha. Some might even argue that he was so good at it that his young successor exceeded him! Ellen White seems to affirm this when she wrote, “When the Lord in His providence sees fit to remove from His work those to whom He has given wisdom, He helps and strengthens their successors, if they will look to Him for aid and will walk in His ways. They may be even wiser than their predecessors; for they may profit by their experience and learn wisdom from their mistakes. Henceforth Elisha stood in Elijah’s place. He who had been faithful in that which was least was to prove himself faithful also in much.”<sup>6</sup>

The greatest compliment to the older generation is the younger generation, whom they have cared for, challenged, and called into ministry, becoming even wiser than they! Unlike King Saul, who grew jealous of his young successor and even worked to sabotage him, Elijah encouraged and equipped Elisha and became a spiritual “father” to him. You will remember that as he ascended in a fiery chariot Elisha shouted, “My father! My father! I see the chariots and charioteers of Israel” (2 Kings 2:12, NLT). What a compliment to the older generation when the younger generation responds to their fatherly love expressed through caring, challenging, and calling! So, leader, never forget, if the ones you are mentoring grow to be better speakers, teachers, administrators, and even leaders than you, then praise God—you’re in good company, with such empowering leaders as Elijah, Barnabas, and yes, even Jesus, who empowered His followers to even greater things. Jesus said, “Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me will do the works I have been doing, and they will do even greater things than these, because I am going to the Father” (John 14:12, NIV). Think on that!

#### Resources

The General Conference Youth Department has some wonderful resources for those who want to grow as youth leaders who care, challenge, and call the younger generation to ministry for the Master. Senior Youth Leadership (SYL) is one of these training resources. We also have the new Adventist Youth Leader Magazine, designed to equip leaders around the world to pass on leadership to the younger generation more effectively. Both of these resources are free for download at youth.adventist.org. Why not make sure all the youth leaders in your area of influence have these resources in hand?

### Thank You!

My deepest respects and appreciation go out to the parents, youth leaders, teachers, club directors, pastors, and administrators around the world who are investing their time, talents, and treasures into the generation coming behind them. You are the fulfillment of Malachi’s promise!

On behalf of the General Conference Youth Department, we thank you! Only in the future will we know how much we owe to your vigilance, dedication, and hard work.

Hopefully this article has stimulated your thinking and strengthened your resolve to intentionally lead God’s church in caring, challenging, and calling the younger generation. I believe this article contains the key to reaching and retaining the younger generation. The cure for Hezekitis is simple but not easy. We as church leaders must act intentionally now!

What matters most in these last days is that we pour into the younger generation and resist the urge to care only for ourselves and our generation. Now is the time for the Elijah leaders to step up and stand out in behalf of the younger generation. It’s time to intentionally care, challenge, and call them! As mentioned above, Hezekiah was a godly king, and no doubt he cared deeply for his son Manasseh, but life has a way of forcing priorities, and if we are not careful, it is highly likely that our priority will be for ourselves and will naturally lead to neglecting the needs of the younger generation. But Jesus will help us; He prioritized children, and He can put this same desire within each of us.

Why not take some time in the next few days or weeks to come up with a written and intentional plan to “turn the hearts of the fathers to the children” in your area of influence?

Never forget that Malachi 4:5, 6 is not just a promise—it’s a warning! “Look, I am sending you the prophet Elijah before the great and dreadful day of the Lord arrives. His preaching will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers. Otherwise

I will come and strike the land with a curse” (NLT).

_Gary Blanchard is the General Conference Youth Director and has worked as a District Pastor, Bible Teacher, Academy Chaplain, Youth Pastor and most recently as the Texas Conference Youth Director. He is married to his best friend Erica and is the proud father of Gary, Ben and Sierra. Gary loves long walks in the woods and raising dogs. Gary’s life mission is to help young people experience the grace of The Lord and become active in taking the Three Angels message to the world._

_Pass it on! Identity, mission, leadership_

**Endnotes:**

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _Prophets and Kings_ (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1917), p. 227.

<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, _Gospel Workers_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1915), pp. 207-212.

<sup>3</sup> E. G. White, _Prophets and Kings_, pp. 140-142.

<sup>4</sup> Ibid., pp. 219, 220.

<sup>5</sup> Ibid., p. 222.

<sup>6</sup> Ibid., p. 228.