---
title:  BY FAITH AND NOT BY SEEING
date:   25/12/2016
---

### BY FAITH AND NOT BY SEEING 

(2 Corinthians 5:7)

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:7 and 2 Corinthians 4:18. What crucial truths are shown in these verses? How can those truths help us to be faithful followers of the Lord?`

The discussion surrounding 2 Corinthians 4:18 is talking about the end times. The study of end-time events is known as eschatology. The verse points forward to the future when Jesus comes back and makes His people immortal. This great promise has not yet been fulfilled. So we have to take this promise by faith, because it has not come to pass yet.

Likewise, the book of Job shows us that there is so much more to the world than what we can see. But this fact should not be so difficult to understand for us who are living in this day and age. Science has made known the many unseen things of nature. 

A preacher stood before a church in a large city. He asked his members for total quiet. For a few seconds there was no sound. He then pulled out a radio and turned it on. He ran the dial across the channels. All sorts of sounds came out of the radio.  

Then the pastor said, “Let me ask, Where did these sounds come from? Did they start in the radio itself? No, these sounds were in the air all around us as radio waves. These waves were just as real as my voice is now. But the way we are wired, we do not see them, nor can we touch them. But the fact that we cannot see or feel or hear them does not mean that they are not around, right?”

`What are other real things that we cannot see (such as radiation or gravity) but that are around us? What spiritual lessons can we learn from the fact that these unseen things are around us and can influence our lives?` 

As the book of Job shows, none of the people involved really understand what is going on. They believe in God. They also have some understanding about God and His character (thoughts; feelings; actions) and creative power. They can see the terrible troubles and suffering Job is going through. But they do not have a clue as to what really is happening behind the scenes. In the same way, we might not know much about the unseen world around us. So the book of Job teaches us that we need to learn to live by faith. We need to understand our weakness and just how little we really see and know.

##### DEFINITIONS

2.	**eschatology**—the study concerned with final events in the history of the world.
3.	**immortal**—cannot age; living forever.
4.	**radiation**—energy that comes from a source in the form of waves or rays you cannot see.