---
title: Sharpen the Sword
date: 03/05/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> (1 Sam 13:19-22 NKJV) Now there was no blacksmith to be found throughout all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, "Lest the Hebrews make swords or spears." {20} But all the Israelites would go down to the Philistines to sharpen each man's plowshare, his mattock, his ax, and his sickle; {21} and the charge for a sharpening was a pim for the plowshares, the mattocks, the forks, and the axes, and to set the points of the goads. {22} So it came about, on the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan. But they were found with Saul and Jonathan his son.

### Observation

Saul’s reign was not peaceful as he battled the Philistines and other nations that surrounded Israel. And while his beginning was promising, prophesying and making the right choices, little by little he began to decline in spirituality, in the respect that the people had for him, and in power.

The Philistines exerted enough control over the nations around them, including Israel, that they would not even allow them to have their own silversmiths so they would not make their own weapons; obviously, this was a problem for the Israelites as they tried to defend themselves.

### Application

I read this story and immediately thought of what today’s world is doing in our homes by creating a thousand and one distractions so that we don’t spend any time “sharpening our swords,” that is, studying the Bible. I’m particularly concerned with parents who believe that sending their children to non-Adventist or even public schools is a good choice and will not affect their children adversely. It is as if the world has disarmed parents so when the battle for their children’s lives comes parents are totally unprepared for it.

I don’t want to take this image too far, but the reality is that unless we are studying God’s word, for ourselves, daily, as the battle lines are drawn and we’re called to fight the enemy of souls, we are in peril of losing the only battle that really matters and carrying our children to the same fate. Spend time each day with God’s Word, treasure it in your heart and mind, and see that your children enjoy the benefits of your study so they may follow your example and have their own swords sharpened and ready for the ultimate battle, the battle for their souls.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, thank You for Your Word, the weapon You have given us to battle the forces of evil. Help us to keep it sharp and ready by studying it every day.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._