---
title: Humbling Me for His Good
date: 16/08/2025
---

_Mary McDonald_

> <p></p>
> Remember how the Lord your God led you all the way in the desert these forty years, to humble you and to test you in order to know what was in your heart, whether or not you would keep his commands. Deut. 8:2, NIV.

After graduating from Stanford University, I married my college sweetheart. While he attended medical school and did residencies, I obtained a Ph.D. in developmental psychology and completed a postdoctoral fellowship. By the time I was 31 we had four beautiful children, two boys and two girls. I had more than 20 publications, and my scientific career was booming. We had a nice house, even a new minivan. Life was good.

At church, when friends asked me how I did it all, I'd think to myself, I really am amazing. When I needed help, which wasn't often, I'd ask God and plunge on. I perceived myself to be in control.

Then unexpectedly the diagnosis came—multiple sclerosis, a crippling, progressive disease.

No! Please, God. Let me keep doing great things. What about the kids? my career?

I fought back, but the condition didn't go away. Why, God? Why?

But always, through it all, then and now, I feel the love of God. And slowly I have learned and am learning that "God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to His purpose" (Rom. 8:28, NASB). And God's meaning of good is wonderful beyond human definition. In His all-knowing wisdom good is knowing Him, loving Him, becoming more like Him. For these things, through God's grace, I now strive.

I am realizing the glory and goodness of the Lord, who loves me so much that He didn't want me to suffer spiritually in my state of health but allowed health to be taken from me for a greater purpose. So He permits the disease that I might leave worldly accomplishments and be brought into His joy.

All things, including our well-being, are in the hands of our omniscient Lord.

I still have much to learn. My disease seems to have stabilized for the past few years. While I experience visual problems and weakness, I am comforted in knowing that God is in control. He sees the big picture, because He made it. God is so good.

> <callout></callout>
> Perhaps you are going through a humbling time right now. Remember, God is in control. Just as He brought the Israelites through 40 years in the desert so they would be ready to inherit Canaan, He is working in your life for good.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._