---
title: Running the Good Race
date: 04/04/2025
---

_Larry Richardson_

> <p></p>
> Let us throw off everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles, and let us run with perseverance the race marked out for us. Heb. 12:1, NIV.

Several years ago I started jogging for exercise. While it has brought me many wonderful health benefits, I can see why many folks avoid it. The sore muscles, tired joints, weary lungs, and everyday aches and pains that jogging can produce discourages the easily disheartened.

However, I have decided that avoiding such pain may not be in my best interests. As a jogger I've learned to listen to my body's signals and learn from them rather than hide from them. While I am out running I look for pain: on the inside of my leg, the outside, the heel, the arch, the hip, the knee, wherever it may occur. Is it a true warning, or a trick my body is playing on me to get me to stop? If I move or turn differently, does it help or hurt more?

While most people feel that to seek pain is illogical, to endure it irrational, and to extend it insane, those who exercise regularly see things differently. Pain teaches, shapes, strengthens, and develops the athlete. It is the only means we have for knowing and doing our best. While most people see no reason to live with pain, athletes believe the opposite. They cannot live without it. As the popular saying goes: "No pain, no gain."

It is interesting that the apostle Paul compared the Christian experience to running a race, and the analogy seems quite fitting. As the runner endures pain, so the Christian suffers trials and tribulations. But in neither case are they to be shunned. The biblical writer James advises: "Consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance" (James 1:2, 3, NIV).

My jogging experience has taught me the blessings, benefits, and necessity of tribulation for refining the body and mind, and for the Christian it is no different. Discipline, commitment, faith, and perseverance are all shaped in hardship, difficulties, and failure. "So run, that ye may obtain" (1 Cor. 9:24).

> <callout></callout>
> What is hindering you from running the race and obtaining the prize of both good physical health and good spiritual health?

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._