---
title: What to Know Before Knocking
subtitle: Chapter 14
---

In the book of Revelation, Jesus beautifully portrays His approach to reaching the hearts of people. He announces, “Behold, I stand at the door and knock” (Revelation 3:20). While He won’t force His way in, His love is far too strong to sit back and wait for us to come to Him. This same love is what compels God’s people, despite feeling nervous and inadequate, to carry the good news of the gospel to their neighborhoods and communities. This chapter will provide valuable instruction for house-to-house labor, endeavoring to equip and inspire church members with faith and confidence.

### Before You Go

As with most spiritual endeavors, there are important steps to consider before carrying out the missionary effort itself. Consider following this plan before knocking on your first door:

**Prepare Your Heart**—Be sure to spend time at the feet of Jesus in prayer and Bible study and to ask for the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Only then will we “know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary” (Isaiah 50:4). The apostle Peter urges us to “sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is in you, with meekness and fear” (1 Peter 3:15).

**Ask God to Guide You to Searching People**—Just as He guided Philip to the Ethiopian (see Acts 8:26-39), we have the assurance that God will guide us to the right people when we ask Him: “All over the world men and women are looking wistfully to heaven. Prayers and tears and inquiries go up from souls longing for light, for grace, for the Holy Spirit. Many are on the verge of the kingdom, waiting only to be gathered in. An angel guided Philip to the one who was seeking for light and who was ready to receive the gospel, and today angels will guide the footsteps of those workers who will allow the Holy Spirit to sanctify their tongues and refine and ennoble their hearts” (The Acts of Apostles, p. 109). “He will guide them to the homes of those who need and desire the truth” (_Evangelism_, p. 434). Pray for divine appointments, for the right person to open the door, for quick rejections if people aren’t interested, for energy and cheerfulness, and for God to speak through you.

**Claim God’s Promises**—Spend some time fortifying your mind with Bible promises that increase faith and protect from doubt and discouragement. Consider these gems: Deuteronomy 
31:6, 8; Joshua 1:3-5, 9; Exodus 4:12; Jeremiah 1:9, 17-19; James 1:5; Romans 8:31, 37-39; Isaiah 55:10, 11; Psalm 126:5, 6.

**Choose a Partner**—When Jesus sent out 70 of His followers for missionary work, He “sent them two by two” (Luke 10:1). It is always best to engage in house-to-house labor with a partner. Within each team of two, one person should take the lead in speaking at the door while the other prays. It’s best if the partners take turns so that both gain a full experience.

**Choose a Time**—Local churches will often schedule outreach activities on a Sabbath afternoon to maximize the participation of members. If you’re part of a small group that has decided to knock on doors, or just you and a partner are planning to do so, you may be able to consider other possible times. Ask yourself: What time of day gives me the best chance of finding people home? Would a day during the week be better received than a weekend? If you have the flexibility, it is good to try different days and times to reach a wider range of people.

**Dress Respectfully**—First impressions are important. Be sure to dress in respectful and modest attire and to maintain good hygiene when visiting the people in your community. This will vary in some respects based on the local culture. In most cases it is not necessary to wear full church attire, but you may also want to avoid appearing too casual. Be sure to wear shoes that you can walk in comfortably.

**Gather Materials**—Plan carefully and collect any materials you may need (map with highlighted streets, clipboard, pen, record sheet, survey, door canvass, literature, invitation flyers, Bible study enrollment cards, Bible lessons, etc.). If you have a lot of materials to carry, such as for a literature distribution project, consider using a backpack or similar bag.

**Practice Your Approach**—Take adequate time to practice what you will say at the door before going out. It can be helpful to role-play with a partner. This doesn’t mean to practice until the nervousness goes away, because most members will continue to feel anxious until after they actually start visiting homes.

#### Visiting the People

Once you have made the necessary spiritual and practical preparations, it’s time to begin your house-to-house visitation. Follow these best practices to maximize your results:

**Be Respectful**—Be respectful of the residents’ property, personal space, opinions, and time. Walk on sidewalks rather than taking shortcuts across personal property. Ring the doorbell only once or knock firmly just a few times, then be patient before trying again. Don’t peer into the windows, but step away from the door after knocking to give adequate personal space. Keep your visit brief, and don’t be pushy. If some are not interested in what you have to offer, simply thank them for their time, wish them a great day, and move on to the next house. If no one is home and placing material inside a mailbox is illegal, leave it on the door. Know the laws in your territory and respect them. In essence, follow the golden rule (see Matthew 7:12).

**Be Friendly and Enthusiastic**—As soon as you see someone, smile. If you’re nervous, remember to speak slowly and loud enough to be heard. Do your best to relax and speak as naturally as you would to a friend. Then be enthusiastic about what you are sharing. No one will be interested in what you have to offer if you don’t seem interested in it yourself! Remember also to be a good listener, showing a genuine interest in what the resident has to say.

**Gauge the Response**—If someone seems friendly and eager to talk, don’t feel as though you have to rush through your canvass. Seek to make a friend. Ask questions, give sincere encouragement, and build connections. On the other hand, if someone acts busy, reluctant, or annoyed, shorten your canvass to the bare minimum and quickly get to your point.

**Put Materials in Their Hands**—Retail companies have understood this principle for a long time. If you touch their products, you will begin to experience the feeling of ownership and be more likely to buy them. When you place literature and other materials in people’s hands, it can have the same effect. They will experience the feeling of ownership and be more interested to hear about what they’ve been given.

**Walk Fast**—There are some good reasons to walk fast when going on outreach. The most obvious is that the faster you walk, the more people you can reach. It also has the benefit of preventing you from dwelling on discouraging encounters. Walking with confidence and purpose communicates that you have something important to share. And finally, walking fast is healthful, producing a positive effect on your mood and outlook.

**Lift Up Jesus**—There is power in our Savior. When we lift up Jesus, He draws people to Himself (see John 12:32). “God will impress those whose hearts are open to truth and who are longing for guidance. He will say to His human agent, ‘Speak to this one or to that one of the love of Jesus.’ No sooner is the name of Jesus mentioned in love and tenderness than angels of God draw near, to soften and subdue the heart” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 6, p. 339).

**Stay Focused**—Some people will see you as an opportunity to share their unique ideas or beliefs. Others will see you as good companionship even if they aren’t interested in spiritual things. Both types of people can monopolize your time if you allow it. If you sense this is happening, kindly conclude your visit. Avoid being distracted from searching for those who are truly interested.

**Stay Positive**—Remember that most people are not actively searching for truth. So even if no one seems to be responding favorably, don’t be discouraged. God has children everywhere who are looking for light. Your goal is to find them. Speedy rejections just mean you will find seekers more quickly, so keep pressing on! “Those who work for God will meet with discouragement, but the promise is always theirs: ‘Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world.’ Matthew 28:20. God will give a most wonderful experience to those who will say: ‘I believe Thy promise; I will not fail nor become discouraged’ ” (ibid., pp. 335, 336).

**Leave Contact Information**—Whatever your particular outreach approach, be sure there is a way for those you visit to get in touch with you or request further information. In most cases you should leave a Bible study enrollment card, an event brochure, or a piece of literature with clear instructions on how they can respond or contact you in the future.

**Offer to Pray**—When God impresses you, offer to pray before leaving. Pray a short but genuine prayer asking God to bless and guide the individual and any family members. These prayers have power to convict and soften hearts.

**Record Your Visits**—Write down the names and addresses of those who respond positively so that you can visit them again. You may also want to record the addresses of those who were not home so you can try to visit at another time. Record names, prayer requests, materials left behind, and other notes before you forget.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
Download a “Street Record Sheet” at www.grow.adventist.org.

**Pray and Share**—Conclude your time of outreach by praying with your partner for those you visited. Share testimonies of your experience with others to be an encouragement to them and to solicit their prayers for your ongoing efforts for these souls.

#### Outreach Approaches

There are many different ways to minister to the families in our neighborhoods and church territories. Changing the approach periodically can help you to reach a wider variety of people and will provide a break from the monotony of following a single method. Below you will find brief explanations and sample canvasses for several different approaches. In each approach you will want to share who you are and the name of the church or ministry you’re representing, keep your visit to only a few minutes, communicate that your offer is free, and look for opportunities to pray with people. Then be sure to follow up periodically with those who show interest, building a relationship and offering invitations to explore the Bible further or to attend church services or events.

> <callout></callout>
> Be sure to follow up periodically with those who show interest.

**Offer Prayer**—A simple but effective way to spread the love of God in your territory is through prayer. Begin by having teams pray for the occupants of every home, asking that the Holy Spirit lead these families closer to God and open their hearts to receive truth. Next, visit the homes to let them know you’ve been praying for them and to ask if they have any particular requests for which you could pray. If they’re willing, pray with them at the door, then leave behind a tract on the power of prayer. Such an approach can break down prejudice and soften hearts. Bring a small notebook to jot down the date, addresses, names, and prayer requests. Continue to remember these requests in your personal and family prayers and as an outreach team. After several weeks you can revisit these homes to inquire about any matter for which you’ve been praying and to eventually offer invitations to study the Bible or attend a church service or event.

Here’s a sample script:

> “Hello. My name is [your name], and we’re from [name of church or ministry]. We’ve been praying for people in this neighborhood, and we’re wondering if you have any specific prayer requests for which we could pray. It could be a financial or health concern, a sick family member, or something more general [pause for a response, and ask for the person’s name]. Would you mind if we said a prayer right now for this situation?

> “Dear God, thank You for being the one who brings hope to every heart. I want to pray for [name of person], who is having a struggle with [specific need]. I ask You to [specific request]. Lord, please be with [name of person at the door], and bless this home. We ask this in Jesus’ name. Amen.

> “We’d also like to leave this little tract with you on the power of prayer [hand the person a tract]. We think it will be a real blessing to you. We’ll be praying for you! Have a nice day.”

After two or three weeks, make a follow-up visit:

> “Hello! A few weeks ago we stopped by to ask for prayer requests. We just wanted you to know that we’ve been praying for you and your family. You had also asked us to pray for [specific request]. How is this situation now? Has there been any change? [Listen, rejoice in answers to prayer, then pray with the person and leave another piece of literature.] We will continue to keep you and your family in our prayers. Have a wonderful day!”

**Offer to Meet Community Needs**—Every community is filled with people who need encouragement, support, and practical help in facing life’s challenges. Jesus showed us how to model the gospel by ministering to these people: “He sympathized with the weary, the heavy-laden, the oppressed. He fed the hungry and healed the sick. Constantly He went about doing good. By the good He accomplished, by His loving words and kindly deeds, He interpreted the gospel to men” (Counsels on Health, p. 498). Both Isaiah 58 and Matthew 25:31-46 give practical ways to minister within our communities, but how do we begin?

Start by assessing the resources your church has to offer. What outreach programs or ministries of the church could be made available to your community? It could be cooking schools, finance seminars, or community services such as clothing and food. Perhaps your men’s, women’s, children’s, or family ministries departments, or your deacons and deaconesses, could offer services to the community. You could also survey your membership to discover special skills or expertise in practical areas (painting, home repairs, financial planning, physical fitness, gardening, etc.). It’s important to know what your church can provide before extending offers to serve your community.

Next, you may want to do some research to determine the most pressing needs in your community. Talk to civic leaders and organizations already actively serving in your area. Ask your regional Adventist Community Services or ADRA departments. After assessing your church’s resources and the community’s greatest needs, decide which services you will plan to offer. Now it’s time to survey the homes in your territory to discover the specific needs of individuals and families and to suggest the services your church is prepared to offer.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
Download a sample survey at www.grow.adventist.org.

Here’s a sample script to accompany a neighborhood needs survey:

> “Hello. We’re with [church or school name], and we’re visiting everyone in the neighborhood to understand better the needs of the community and to make them aware of a variety of programs and services we offer at no charge. [Go through survey and list of services.] Which one(s) of these are of interest to you?”

**Distribute Literature**—One of the most effective ways to spread the truth door to door is through the mass distribution of literature. Literature evangelists have a long history in the Seventh-day Adventist Church of selling truth-filled materials, but many churches purchase inexpensive books, magazines, or tracts for their members to distribute as free gifts. Oftentimes churches will choose one or more books to give to everyone in their territory, such as _Steps to Christ_, _The Great Controversy_, or the Missionary Book of the Year. They can also choose literature that coincides well with a particular time of year, such as a holiday season. Another theme could relate to physical needs, such as tracts and periodicals on various 
health topics.

Here’s a sample script for distributing _The Great Controversy_:

> “Hello. My name is [your name], and this is [your partner’s name]. We won’t take up your time, but we’d like to leave you with this free book [hand the person the book with a free Bible study offer tucked in the front cover]. It’s called _The Great Controversy_, and it explains what is currently happening in our world in the light of Bible prophecy. We believe it’s so life-changing that we’re giving one to everyone in the community. You owe it to yourself to read this book!”

Here’s a sample script for distributing literature on health topics:

> “Hello. My name is [your name], and this is [your partner’s name]. We won’t take up your time, but we’d like to leave you with this free health magazine [hand the person the magazine with a free Bible study offer tucked in the front cover]. It’s called [name of magazine], and it explains how you can feel better, maintain a healthful weight, and greatly minimize your risk of disease. We believe it’s so life-changing that we’re giving one to everyone in the community. Be sure to read it, OK?”

If you’re trying to disperse a significant amount of literature quickly in order to reach a distribution goal, one approach is simply to drop it off without speaking to anyone at the door. In this case, consider placing it in a clear door-hanger bag along with a cover letter that explains the gift you’re leaving behind. You may also include a brochure about the church and its events or simply a card offering free Bible studies.

**Conduct Surveys**—Another approach is to conduct surveys from door to door on a variety of topics. These surveys are a way to find out the views and opinions of those in your community, engage them in spiritual conversations, determine their needs, and offer services to bless and help them. Surveys often conclude with an offer for Bible studies and may also be followed up by leaving some free literature. Common surveys include community religious surveys, prophecy surveys, neighborhood needs surveys, and community health surveys.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
Download sample surveys at www.grow.adventist.org.

Here’s a sample script:

> “Hello. We’re from [name of church or ministry], and we’re conducting a [name of survey] to learn about the views and needs of our community. Could you help us out by taking just two or three minutes to answer a few questions?”

Take residents through the survey, but don’t feel the need to rush through it if they’re open to conversation. Conclude by asking if they have interest in Bible studies or any need-based programs that you or your church may offer. Offer to pray before leaving, and leave behind free literature.

**Offer Bible Studies**—Though most door-to-door approaches incorporate an offer for Bible studies in some way, at times you may want to make this the sole reason for your visit. Give those you visit the first Bible study guide in a series. Then offer to come back and review it with them or simply to drop off another lesson or two each week. Be sure to let them know that the study guides are free. If no one is home, leave the first lesson with a Bible study sign-up card that explains how the resident can sign up to receive more. “Carry the Word of God to every man’s door, urge its plain statements upon every man’s conscience, repeat to all the Savior’s command, ‘Search the Scriptures’ ” (_Evangelism_, p. 434).

Here’s a sample script:

> “Hello! We’re from [name of church or ministry], and we’re offering free Bible study guides to everyone in the community [hand the first study guide to the person]. A lot of people wish they knew what the Bible said about life’s biggest questions, but they don’t know where to begin looking. These study guides are perfect because they help you find the answers straight from the Bible [open lesson and point out features like the question-and-answer format, fill-in-the-blank, etc.]. People really love them! They’re free, there’s no obligation, and you can stop receiving them at any time. Would you like to give them a try? Wonderful! Complete this lesson, and we’ll bring you the next one at this same time next week, if that works for you. If you have any questions, we can try to answer those when we drop by. Enjoy your study, and we’ll see you next week!”

**Sing Hymns or Carols**—In some cultures, taking a group to sing well-known hymns door to door can be well received. “Learn to sing the simplest of songs. These will help you in house-to-house labor, and hearts will be touched by the influence of the Holy Spirit” (_Colporteur Ministry_, p. 91). Even cultures in which this is less common are often open to groups singing Christmas carols at the end of the year. When sharing music from house to house, consider having children come along and give a small gift with some literature and an offer for Bible studies to the residents.

The following Christmas caroling canvass is simple and easy for children to give at the door while carols are being sung by the rest of the group:

> “Hello. We’re from [name of church or ministry], and we just wanted to bring you some holiday cheer. Here’s a little gift for you [hand the person a nice gift along with information about your church or an appropriate piece of literature].”

**Visit Interests**—House-to-house labor can include following up with those who have already expressed an interest. These include church visitors, event guests, Bible study interests, media ministry interests, literature evangelism interests, and many others. Sadly, many of these individuals have never been personally visited, prayed with, spiritually encouraged, given literature, or offered Bible studies. Yet these can be some of your best contacts, having already shown an interest in something your church has to offer. Many of them could develop into solid interests and even begin attending church if they were regularly visited and befriended by church members. Consider the sample 
scripts below.

###### Church Visitors:

> “Hello. My name is [your name], and I’m a member at [name of church], where you recently visited. Did you have a good experience when you visited us? [Listen to feedback and ask follow-up questions as appropriate, such as “Was this your first time visiting a Seventh-day Adventist church?”] The church would like to give you [“and your family,” if applicable] a small gift for coming. [Hand the person a small sharing book or other gift.] While you were visiting us, did anyone tell you about our free Bible study offer? [Listen to response, then hand the person a Bible study guide and a card explaining how to sign up for the full series.] We hope you’ll consider visiting us again soon! [Offer to pray for the individual and family, if applicable, before leaving.]”

###### Prior Evangelistic Meeting Interests:

> “Hello, my name is [state your name], and I’m from [name of church or ministry]. I understand that you attended the [name of seminar] presented by [name of speaker] held at [location] in [month and year]. Do you recall attending that seminar? Did you enjoy the presentations you attended? Well, we just wanted to stop by with a couple of small gifts to thank you for attending and maybe to help you in your study. First, we have a book for you [hand the person a sharing book such as _The Great Controversy_ or _The Desire of Ages_, offering a brief explanation of its theme and contents]. And then we also wanted you to have the first [Bible study guide or prophecy DVD] in a series that covers many similar topics related to the seminar you attended [hand the person the study guide or DVD, and explain how to sign up for the full series]. We hope you’ll also consider visiting us for [upcoming event or special church service]! [Offer to pray for the individual and family, if applicable, before leaving.]”

#### Common Reactions

You can expect to meet a wide variety of reactions when visiting from house to house. Here are a few of the more common ones, with suggested ways to respond:

**“What is a Seventh-day Adventist?”** In some cases, if you go to the door representing a media or Bible study ministry, the question may be directed toward the ministry instead. Either way, you can respond by explaining that we believe in the Bible; in Jesus as the Son of God, who died for our sins; in keeping all of God’s commandments by faith; and in the soon coming of Jesus. Don’t feel the need to go into the specifics of our unique doctrines at this early stage: “In laboring in a new field, do not think it your duty to say at once to the people, We are Seventh-day Adventists; we believe that the seventh day is the Sabbath; we believe in the non-immortality of the soul. This would often erect a formidable barrier between you and those you wish to reach” (_Gospel Workers_, pp. 119, 120).

**“I have my own religion/church.”** This comment is usually a way of declining your offer. Rather than be deterred, you could respond, “That’s wonderful that you are a spiritual person! These study guides are designed for people of any background or persuasion. Why not try the first study guide, and if you decide you don’t like it, there’s certainly no obligation to continue.”

**“I’m not interested!”** One of our greatest fears when it comes to witnessing to others is the potential for rejection. The majority often just aren’t interested. But should the likelihood of being turned away discourage us? Consider the following inspired counsel: “ ‘But,’ says one, ‘suppose we cannot gain admittance to the homes of the people; and if we do, suppose they rise up against the truths that we present. Shall we not then feel excused from making further efforts for them?’ By no means. Even if they shut the door in your face, do not hasten away in indignation, and make no further effort to save them. Ask God in faith to give you access to those very souls. Cease not your efforts, but study and plan until you find some other means of reaching them” (_Evangelism_, p. 411).

#### On Heaven’s Errands

If you’ve ever felt anxious about house-to-house ministry, you’re not alone. It’s easy to forget that the work is God’s, and that we are His instruments. Joe and Johnny were church members who were not super-excited about the prospects of house-to-house ministry. To help with their nerves, they claimed the promise of Joshua 1:9: “Have I not commanded you? Be strong and of good courage; do not be afraid, nor be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go.” They also prayed that God would lead them to someone who was searching for light and truth. Yet as they went from house to house knocking on doors, they found that many people weren’t home or wouldn’t answer. Several people didn’t respond positively, and others cautiously accepted their literature. It was a day that was, by most measures, disappointing. As the sun was setting, Johnny was thankful that the door knocking was over and it was time to go home. But Joe wanted to go to one more house. Through some convincing, Johnny went along reluctantly.

> <callout></callout>
> Jesus has asked you to search for His lost sheep.

At the last house, Johnny and Joe met Patricia. She was so excited to see the two young men! She invited them in and wanted all their literature. She also told them that she had been watching Adventist television programs for many years and came under conviction to follow the truths of God’s Word. That very morning she had prayed that if God really wanted her to become a Seventh-day Adventist, He would send people to her home. Perhaps it’s not a surprise that Patricia was soon baptized into a local Adventist church! And there are people in our communities just like Patricia, whom God wants to lead us to when we pray and labor in faith.

As you go from house to house, remember that you’re not visiting strangers for personal gain, but because Jesus has asked you to search for His lost sheep. You’re going on His errands, not your own. So commit yourself to God in prayer, place yourself in His hands, and remember who it is that takes ultimate responsibility for your success: “When we give ourselves wholly to God and in our work follow His directions, He makes Himself responsible for its accomplishment. He would not have us conjecture as to the success of our honest endeavors. Not once should we even think of failure. We are to cooperate with One who knows no failure” (_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 363).