---
title: Olympic Champion
date: 22/03/2025
---

_Todd Hoyt_

> <p></p>
> “You have so little faith. I tell you the truth, if you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there’ and it will move. Nothing will be impossible for you.” Matt. 17:20, NIV.

Ever since I can remember, I have dreamed of being an Olympic champion. The feel of adrenaline flowing, the heart throbbing, and the sweat pouring as I strive for a gold medal for my country. Wow, what a thrill that would be!

As a child I would get all my neighborhood friends together, and we would pretend we were competing against each other in gymnastics. I would always try to be the one representing America. You should have seen us out in the backyard doing somersaults and cartwheels.

That dream came to a sudden stop the winter I was in fourth grade. I was sledding in the mountains of Colorado with friends and family. Eagerly I shouted to my dad, “Push me first.” Then while speeding down the hill I hit a huge bump that tossed me through the air and onto my elbow. The impact badly broke my arm.

Although my arm did heal after the accident, it remained terribly crooked, and I soon realized that being an Olympic champion would probably never happen. I did not let that stop my interest in gymnastics and other sports, however, for I remembered a Bible verse that says “Be strong and very courageous” (Joshua 1:7, NIV).

I refused to let that accident prevent me from enjoying the sport I loved all through grade school, high school, college, and beyond. I may not lead my country to a championship, but I can still strive to become the very best I can be. And I can be a champion of strength and courage for others who experience setbacks—others whose dreams get shattered like my elbow.

If Satan has put hurdles in your life, I encourage you to claim Matthew 17:20, for with God’s help, nothing is impossible. You may not be an Olympic champion, but God can change your attitude from one of disappointment to one of acceptance. With God you can be a champion and receive the gold medal of His kingdom.

> <callout></callout>
> If you are struggling with the thought that you cannot accomplish the things you would like to because Satan has put a boulder in your path, take that challenge and use the obstacle to climb your way to new heights.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._