---
title: Oh! Give Thanks
date: 04/25/2025
---

_Pamela Consuegra, PhD_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> "Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for He is good! For His mercy endures forever" (1 Chronicles 16:34 NKJV)

### Observation

**16:34** **Oh give thanks to Yahweh** This verse is most likely adapted from Psa 106:1, although both refrains are common throughout the Psalms (Pss 107:1; 118:1; 136:1). See Psa 106:1 and note.

**his loyal love is everlasting** This refrain acts as a repeated chorus in some Psalms (Pss 118:1–4; 136:1–26). [Barry, J. D., Grigoni, M. R., Heiser, M. S., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). _Faithlife Study Bible_ (1 Ch 16:34). Bellingham, WA: Logos Bible Software.]

### Application

Have you stopped to listen to your prayers lately? Are they characterized by long "to do" lists for God? As parents, it is easy to fall into this trap. We can quickly recite a long list of things for God to "fix" in our children.

Don't allow the negative to overshadow the good. There is more good than bad but focusing on the bad prevents you from seeing the blessings that are right in front of you. That strong willed chichitchat gives you so much trouble now will be able to stand up to his/her peers later. So, give thanks! That child who talks non-stop may grow up to be a preacher. So, give thanks! That child who seems to have an argument for everything may stand before courts to argue for religious liberty one day. So, give thanks! What may seem like a negative trait today may be used by God for His purposes tomorrow. So, give thanks!

When you are tempted to complain, think again. Give thanks instead. You will feel better and your family will also benefit from a more positive you. "Oh, give thanks to the Lord. For His mercy endures forever!"

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Dear Lord, thank you for the special gift you gave me in my child. Thank you for... ( make a list of all of the positive traits you see in your child. Be specific. Take this time to focus on what's right in them and give thanks to God).

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._