---
title: Organizing Your Church for Outreach
subtitle: Chapter 15
---

Careful organization may seem tedious, but it’s more important to the success of an outreach effort than many people realize. On far too many outreach days the members sit around waiting for matters to be organized that could have been completed much earlier. In other cases they’re not given the necessary training and materials to succeed. Since many church members are reluctant to participate in outreach activities in the first place, this lack of organization can be all that is needed to discourage them from volunteering again. To help us avoid this sad scenario, we should take heed to the inspired counsel regarding the necessity of order and organization:

“It is essential to labor with order, following an organized plan and a definite object” (_Evangelism_, p. 94).

“If we see no necessity for harmonious action, and are disorderly, undisciplined, and disorganized in our course of action, angels, who are thoroughly organized and move in perfect order, cannot work for us successfully. They turn away in grief, for they are not authorized to bless confusion, distraction, and disorganization. All who desire the cooperation of the heavenly messengers must work in unison with them. Those who have the unction from on high will in all their efforts encourage order, discipline, and union of action, and then the angels of God can cooperate with them. But never, never will these heavenly messengers place their endorsement upon irregularity, disorganization, and disorder” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 1, pp. 649, 650).

“It is a sin to be heedless, purposeless, and indifferent in any work in which we may engage, but especially in the work of God. Every enterprise connected with His cause should be carried forward with order, forethought, and earnest prayer” (_Evangelism_, p. 94).

It is significant that the need for order and forethought are mentioned here in the same list as earnest prayer. Many people emphasize prayer to the exclusion of detailed plans and organization. Others focus on the mechanics of organization but fail to rely upon divine power. But there must be both prayer and organization. Genuine success in outreach always demands both.

#### Outreach Approach

One of the first steps in organizing an outreach effort is to determine what method or approach to take. Whether you choose from one of the common ideas given in the previous chapter or do something entirely different, knowing your approach is essential. It helps you determine the quantity and types of materials you need, the number of people to recruit, the size of the area for which you’ll need maps, and many 
other details.

Toward the end of each year every church should develop an evangelistic calendar for the following year. Consider scheduling a full year of church outreach days on this calendar, and assigning a tentative approach to each one. These can be subject to change, but it is good to lay out the full year to be sure you are planning for a variety of approaches. The frequency of these outreach days may vary based on the size and circumstances of a church. Some churches will plan quarterly outreach days, while others may schedule them weekly over a two- to three-month period leading up to a large event. Another strategy is to schedule some form of afternoon outreach on the first Sabbath of every month, which the Church Manual calls Church Outreach Sabbath (see _Seventh-day Adventist Church Manual_ [2016], p. 122). The following is an example of a monthly outreach schedule:

- **January**—Offer prayer
- **February**—Offer prayer
- **March**—Global Youth Day mass literature distribution
- **April**—Literature emphasis month; Impact Day mass distribution of Missionary Book of the Year
- **May**—Conduct surveys; invite to health program
- **June**—Invite to Vacation Bible School
- **July**—Offer Bible studies
- **August**—Offer Bible studies
- **September**—Invite to evangelistic meetings
- **October**—Visit evangelistic meeting interests
- **November**—Visit evangelistic meeting interests
- **December**—Ingathering; Christmas caroling

These group outreach efforts will help you to find and develop spiritual interests. Be sure to let the volunteers know if their commitment to help involves more than participating in the initial outreach day. If they’re being asked to follow up with interested individuals, which is generally the case, this could mean making weekly visits to drop off materials or give Bible studies.

> <callout></callout>
> The goal should be to minister to every home in the territory.

Several weeks before each scheduled outreach, finalize the plans for your approach on that day. Answer the following questions: Will we be attempting to speak to people at their homes or simply leaving literature or other materials at their doors? Will we only be visiting homes, or also going to high-traffic locations, such as malls or parks? Is there an evangelistic event that has been added to the calendar that we now want to advertise by distributing flyers on outreach day? Earnestly pray and thoughtfully evaluate before finalizing your approach.

#### Outreach Territory and Goals

It’s important for local churches to identify or determine the territory for which they are responsible. The goal should be to minister to every home in the territory through prayer, event invitations, free literature, and offers for Bible study. In some cases the conference or mission where the church is located has already identified territory boundaries for its churches. In addition to the area around them, churches may also choose to adopt distant towns or neighborhoods where there is no Adventist church nearby. Clearly outline the boundaries of your territory on a physical or electronic map.

It can also be helpful for churches to study the demographics of their territories. This information might include age, gender, race, ethnicity, religious preference, education level, income level, and more. While the goal is to minister to every individual and family, knowing demographic information about the people living in their territories can help churches adapt their strategies better. For instance, when making unsolicited visits to homes, lower-income areas generally yield more favorable responses. This should not deter us from visiting other homes, but it could be helpful in assigning outreach teams. We may assign first-time teams to areas with a higher probability of positive responses while assigning more experienced members to harder-to-reach areas.

It is becoming more important in our global society to discover when there is a high concentration of people from different countries or who speak different languages living in the territories of our churches. When we minister to those living in our territories whose home of origin is another country, often they will go back and share the truth with those in their native lands. Thus, even our local churches can have a global impact. Ellen White affirms: “God, in His providence, has sent men to our very doors, and thrust them, as it were, into our arms, that they might learn the truth more perfectly, and be qualified to do a work we could not do in getting the light before men of other tongues. We have too often failed to discern God’s hand, and we have not received the very ones God had provided for us to work in union with, and act a part in sending the light to other nations” (_Life Sketches of Ellen G. White_, p. 213). We must not overlook the special opportunities God has given us to witness to people of different nationalities.

To begin planning for a specific outreach effort, choose a portion of your territory in which to begin. It’s essential to create maps of the area where your members will be visiting homes. 
A separate map should be prepared for each pair of members that will be sent out, with the specific roads or streets highlighted for which that team will be responsible. This helps the members know exactly where they’re going and also provides a way for them to keep track of what streets they’ve covered. Because you may not know how many members will show up for outreach day, be sure to aim high when creating maps of street assignments. It is better to have too many than not enough.

If your church is doing a mass literature distribution project, you’ll also want to set a distribution goal. To do this, add up the number of books and tracts the church plans to distribute to homes, friends and family, malls, markets, bus or train stations, city centers, sporting events, parks, or businesses. Establishing a distribution goal will guide your church in determining the quantities of materials that will be needed for the outreach project. The goal should be specific, aggressive, and yet realistically attainable.

#### Outreach Materials

In order to conduct an effective door-to-door ministry in your community, your members will need the right materials to assist them in this work. These will vary depending on the outreach approach you are using, but here is a list of some of the more common materials needed:

- Maps with street assignments highlighted
- Clipboards
- Clear door-hanger bags
- Highlighters and pens
- Scripts, surveys, letters, event flyers, street trackers, interest record sheets, etc.
- Literature and/or media—books, tracts, magazines, DVDs, USB drives, etc.
- Bible study guides and enrollment cards
- Church business or media ministry info cards
- Bags or backpacks to carry materials for mass distribution

Funds for materials will generally need to come out of your church’s personal ministries budget and be approved by the church board. Large projects may also require a special fundraising effort. Plan adequate time to secure board approval, obtain the necessary funds, order or develop materials, and organize or assemble materials before any scheduled outreach. To provide for teams and families that may reach out to the community at other times than those scheduled for the whole church, consider maintaining an easily accessible inventory of the most common outreach materials.

#### Outreach Teams

A key step in organizing door-to-door outreach is the formation of outreach teams. “The work of the Lord’s ambassadors is to organize a company of workers to hunt for the souls who need help; but hours are spent in preaching that had better be devoted to personal, house-to-house labor” (_Union Conference Record_, February 25, 1907). Here are several steps and helpful ideas to guide you when organizing members into teams for door-to-door outreach:

**Pray First**—Begin the process of assembling your volunteers with earnest prayer for wisdom and help. Jesus spent an entire night in prayer before He chose His 12 apostles (see Luke 6:12), setting an example that earnest prayer should precede the selection or organization of personnel for ministry.

**Choose a Time When Members Are Available**—In order to maximize member participation, choose a day and time for your outreach when members would likely be available. In most cases Sabbath afternoon works well for this reason. However, you may want to try something different from time to time. If you have members who are willing to go out on an evening during the week, for instance, you will find different people at home than you would on a weekend afternoon.

**Promote and Recruit**—Prior to any outreach event, significant efforts should be made to recruit members to get involved. Use the Sabbaths leading up to outreach day to inspire, challenge, and motivate. Share powerful outreach testimonies, challenging quotes from the Bible and Ellen White’s writings, and clear plans that inspire confidence in the outreach leadership and organization. Personally encourage department leaders, especially of youth and young adult ministries, to support you in recruiting helpers to participate on outreach day. Remember that those you take time to recruit will often use their own influence to persuade friends and family to get involved. Thus personal appeals for help are multiplied, which results in greater participation and a better overall experience for everyone.

**Dedicate Volunteers to God**—Have a special prayer of dedication for the workers who will be volunteering on the day of the outreach. Ask God to use them, and the truth-filled materials they will be sharing, in a powerful way. If the outreach is happening on Sabbath, this prayer can occur immediately before or after a sermon that challenges and inspires those members who are still undecided about participating.

**Organize Into Teams of Two**—Jesus gave us an example when He sent out His disciples in teams of two (see Luke 10:1): 
“Calling the twelve about Him, Jesus bade them go out two and two through the towns and villages. None were sent forth alone, but brother was associated with brother, friend with friend. Thus they could help and encourage each other, counseling and praying together, each one’s strength supplementing the other’s weakness. . . . It was the Savior’s purpose that the messengers of the gospel should be associated in this way. In our own time evangelistic work would be far more successful if this example were more closely followed” (_The Desire of Ages_, p. 350). Whether done ahead of time or on the day of the scheduled outreach, organize your volunteers into pairs. While teams of two are ideal, teams of three (not including small children) may at times be acceptable for reasons 
of safety or convenience.

**Form Teams Wisely**—Many members will pair up with their spouses or friends when forming outreach teams, but leaders should still provide guidance in pairing members together. Wisdom and discretion should be used when forming teams, taking into consideration appropriateness of age and gender, safety, experience, and supervision. Church members who have more outreach experience should be paired with less-experienced members and children. With proper supervision and mentoring, involving children in outreach is a good thing. And the children can be very effective at reaching the hearts of people.

**Inspire and Train**—After you have formed teams, take time for inspiration and training. “One worker who has been trained and educated for the work, who is controlled by the Spirit of Christ, will accomplish far more than ten laborers who go out deficient in knowledge, and weak in the faith” (_Evangelism_, p. 109). Here’s a sample training outline:

1. Share a brief but inspiring outreach testimony.
2. Go over the applicable instruction given in the previous chapter.
3. Provide everyone with a sample canvass and explain the specific outreach approach the members will use. Utilize role play to demonstrate a typical experience at the door.
4. Give the teams time to practice. They may not memorize the script, but it will serve as a helpful guide.
5. Ensure that each team has the materials they need.
6. Instruct the teams on how you would like them to record the outcomes of their visits and to follow up with those who show an interest.
7. Announce when and where the teams should return for a post-outreach meeting. In most cases, allowing one hour for actual door-to-door labor is sufficient.

**Pray for God to Prepare the Way**—Once you are organized and prepared to visit the homes in your territory, pray earnestly that the Lord will prepare the hearts of those you will visit. God and angels will go with you in answer to these prayers.

**Return for the Post-Outreach Meeting**—After the time allotted for outreach, everyone should gather together at a specific time and place. Here you will ask for testimonies to be shared, collect outreach forms and records, gather leftover materials, and offer a prayer of thanks and continued blessing for the people who were visited.

**Assign Ongoing Teams to Outreach Zones**—While the teams you organize are often one-time pairings of those who volunteer for a churchwide outreach project, they may also be part of ongoing teams organized to minister to different outreach “zones” in your church’s territory. This is accomplished by first dividing the map of your church territory into several different zones and assigning a number to each one. Next, ask Sabbath School classes or other small groups to “adopt” a particular zone to minister to the people there on a continuing basis. When the zones within your church territory are thus assigned, it can make your outreach projects more efficient. If flyers or literature need to be distributed, or interests followed up, these groups already know they’re responsible for those within their respective zones.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
See sample territory maps at www.grow.adventist.org.

Outreach groups can also be assigned to new territories with no Adventist presence. Ellen White saw the need for church members who would commit to this kind of work: “We see the great need of missionary work to carry the truth not only to foreign countries, but to those who are near us. Close around us are cities and towns in which no efforts are made to save souls” (_Christian Service_, p. 180). “Let families that are well grounded in the truth enter, one or two families in a place, to work as missionaries. They should feel a love for souls, a burden of labor for them, and should make it a study how to bring them into the truth. They can distribute our publications, hold meetings in their homes, become acquainted with their neighbors, and invite them to come to these meetings. Thus they can let their light shine in good works” (ibid., pp. 178, 179).

#### Outreach Time Line

Waiting until the last minute to begin your preparations can prevent your outreach day from being a success. Avoid this pitfall by following a time line that includes all the necessary steps to prepare for an effective outreach day. Here’s a sample time line you could use:

###### Fourth Quarter of Previous Year

- Pray earnestly for wisdom.
- Schedule outreach days and approaches for the following year.
- Develop budget for outreach days, and secure approval.
- Begin fundraising if needed.

###### Six Weeks Before Outreach Day

- Make final decision regarding your outreach approach.
- Determine portion of territory to be worked on outreach day.
- Set measurable goals.
- Assign personnel to handle outreach responsibilities.
- Purchase literature and other materials as needed.
- Speak to department leaders about how they can be involved.

###### Four Weeks Before Outreach Day

- Begin promoting outreach in church announcements.
- Inspire, challenge, and recruit members to participate.

###### Two Weeks Before Outreach Day

- Highlight maps that outreach teams will use on outreach day.
- Prepare and assemble literature and other materials as needed.

###### One Week Before Outreach Day

- Share final plans and instructions about next week’s outreach.
- Make final appeal to the congregation to participate.
- Set up banner or literature display for outreach day, if applicable.

If your outreach day is planned for a Sabbath afternoon, it’s best to offer a fellowship meal to prevent people from having to go home and come back. Here’s a sample schedule for a typical Sabbath outreach day:

| Time | Activity | Description |
| --- | --- |
| 9:30 a.m. | Sabbath School and Church Service | Have special prayer to dedicate workers and materials to God and a sermon that inspires and challenges members to get involved in the outreach day. |
| 12:30 p.m. | Fellowship Meal | This could be for the entire church or just the group participating in the outreach activities. |
| 2:00 p.m. | Outreach Training | Organize volunteers into teams of two (or three) plus children, provide teams with maps and materials, train teams, allow time for role play and practice, and pray for the Holy Spirit and angels to bless the outreach. |
| 3:00 p.m. | Outreach Activity | Go into the territory with your specific outreach approach. The time allotted is an estimate that assumes 15 minutes to get to the territory assignment and 15 minutes to get back, leaving one hour for actual outreach. |
| 4:30 p.m. | Post-Outreach Meeting | Gather together again to share stories, report results, gather materials, and pray. |
| 5:30 p.m. | Conclusion | Members depart for home. |

The time needed for training and actual outreach will vary. For instance, you may need 1.5 hours for training if it’s been a long time since your church has conducted house-to-house outreach, or only 30 minutes if you’ve been doing so on a consistent basis. Similarly, if your outreach activity is a mass distribution project in which you’re dropping off literature or flyers but not speaking to people at the doors, training might take only 30 minutes, and you could choose to spend two or more hours in distribution to reach an aggressive goal.

#### Follow-up

Anyone in the community who expresses interest during an outreach day will need to be properly followed up. This will likely involve regular visits to the home to drop off Bible studies or other resources, or to check in on the status of prayer requests. It may also include invitations to attend church events and services. In addition to personal visits, obtaining other forms of contact information enables the church to include the interest in regular email, text, and social media notifications and announcements. Many people require multiple contacts and invitations before responding favorably. A good follow-up plan is often the secret to experiencing fruit from your soul-winning labors.

#### Final Encouragement

When Jesus gave the Great Commission, He concluded by saying, “And lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age” (Matthew 28:20). We often speak of this verse in the generic sense that God will not leave us because of His great love for us. While this is true, the context of the verse is more specific than this. Jesus is here promising that when we choose to “go . . . 
and make disciples,” then especially will He be with us.

The church is never closer to the heart of God than when it is sacrificing personal time and convenience to labor for the salvation of the lost. God will draw especially close when we engage in this important labor: “Angels of God attend you to the dwellings of those you visit. This work cannot be done by proxy. Money lent or given will not accomplish it. Sermons will not do it. By visiting the people, talking, praying, sympathizing with them, you will win hearts. This is the highest missionary work that you can do. To do it, you will need resolute, persevering faith, unwearying patience, and a deep love for souls” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 9, p. 41).