---
title: What Does God Know About You?
date: 16/08/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “And He said, ‘Do not lay your hand on the lad, or do anything to him; for now, I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from Me.’” –Genesis 22:12

Abraham faced a daunting test that many pray they’ll never have to endure. He was asked to do something that would break both his heart and that of his wife Sarah. Despite the immense pain it would cause, Abraham was willing to execute what he was told  to do.

This verse teaches us two important lessons. Today, we’ll focus on one of them, and we’ll explore the other in the next offertory reading. Abraham demonstrated his fear for God by what he did—he obeyed Him. God told him to sacrifice his son, and he obeyed Him. He did not make excuses or remind God that he was his “only son,” the promised son.

Obedience to God’s commands is one trait of people who fear Him. One of God’s directives is recorded in Malachi 3:10: “Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in My house.” Like Abraham, we, too, should demonstrate our fear of God by faithfully bringing “all the tithes into the storehouse.”

### Appeal

The call to give provides an opportunity to demonstrate our obedience to God’s commands. Let us show our fear of God by obeying the directive to bring tithe and offerings to the storehouse. Just as Abraham obeyed God’s directive, and God said, “Now I know that you fear Me.” So, the question stands, what do my actions reveal to God concerning my commitment to serve Him?