---
title: This Is the Day . . .
date: 07/22/2025
---

_Vivian Raitz_

> <p></p>
> This is the day the Lord has made; let us rejoice and be glad in it. Ps. 118:24, NIV.

God's in His heaven—all's right with the world!" I exclaimed, drawing open the blinds of our condo.

"But all is not right with the world," my sister replied. "There is murder, rape, famine, floods. . . . This world is a mess!"

My sister was right, if that's the way you choose to look at the world. But from my vantage point that day, I was overwhelmed with God's goodness to bring us five sisters and my two daughters from four states for a week together in Colorado. We could view Mount Baldy from our balcony, take early-morning walks along the picturesque river flowing through the little mountain town, hike in the woods, ride mountain bikes, white-water raft, and just bask in one another's company.

It's easy to get burdened down with the world's cares and miss the little things that can lift a person's thoughts. That's why when walking in the early mornings near my Georgia home I try to look up at the heavens instead of down at my feet. It helps brighten my spirits and bring positive thoughts to mind. The exercise makes the healing endorphins flow to strengthen my immune system. It's even great walking in the rain or frosty weather.

I praise the Lord for the privilege of getting out in His nature, viewing the fluffy clouds against a blue sky, listening to the birds, watching the squirrels, enjoying my neighbors' lovely yards, and having a release from my day-to-day stresses.

I try desperately to be an "up" person, not darkening the paths of those around me by speaking of depressing things. And I believe that laughter is good for the soul. It, too, makes those healing endorphins flow.

My sister was right. Perhaps I shouldn't say, "All's right with the world." But God is still in His heaven, so now as I open the blinds in Colorado, or look up at the lovely Georgia sky, I say, "This is the day the Lord has made; let us rejoice and be glad in it!" We can praise Him for that.

> <callout></callout>
> Praise God as you open the blinds of your day.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._