---
title: Morning Manna
date: 30/08/2025
---

_Caris H. Lauda_

> <p></p>
> Up, for this is the day in which the Lord hath delivered . . . into your hand: is not the Lord gone out before you? Judges 4:14.

What wonderful words to start this new day. Jesus has already gone before me preparing the way. He knows my travel contacts, problems, cares, joys, and sorrows for this day. And He knows the decisions I must make. I'm not alone, because He's chosen me to be on His team, and I can do all things through Him (Phil. 4:13).

Morning manna is the way to get a healthy start for your day: "Consecrate yourself to God in the morning, make this your very first work. Let your prayer be, 'Take me, O Lord, as wholly Thine. I lay all my plans at Thy feet. Use me today in Thy service. Abide with me, and let all my work be wrought in Thee'" (Steps to Christ, p. 70).

I've made this my prayer every morning for more years than I care to remember, and I know it works. At the beginning of each new day I surrender my life to Jesus and make plans for that day according to what He impresses me to do.

Carefully and prayerfully notice what happens when you make it your policy to talk to God before speaking to human beings. "When you rise in the morning, do you feel your helplessness and your need of strength from God? and do you humbly, heartily make known your wants to your heavenly Father? If so, angels mark your prayers, and if these prayers have not gone forth out of feigned lips, when you are in danger of unconsciously doing wrong, . . . your guardian angel will be by your side, prompting you to a better course, choosing your words for you, and influencing your actions" (Testimonies, vol. 3, pp. 363, 364). Isn't that awesome?

But if you forget your morning manna and try to get through your day on an empty spiritual stomach, notice what happens: "If you offer no prayer for help and strength to resist temptations, you will be sure to go astray; your neglect of duty will be marked in the book of God in heaven, and you will be found wanting in the trying day" (ibid.).

Have you had your morning manna today?

> <callout></callout>
> The number one habit of successful Christians is to talk to God before talking to fellow humans.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._