---
title: Give—Even If It Is Too Much
date: 12/07/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “But he who did not know, yet committed things deserving of stripes, shall be beaten with few. For everyone to whom much is given, from him much will be required; and to whom much has been committed, of him they will ask the more.” –Luke 12:48

When Fabian (not his real name) was doing his final high school class in Zambia, his brother sent him money for the examination fee. Upon counting, Fabian realized it was almost twice the required examination fees. When he saw that, he began to wrestle with the idea of giving tithe and an offering equivalent to tithe—meaning another ten percent. This was a challenging decision for a poor young student. After much thought, he decided to return tithe and give another ten percent as offerings.

While he was counting the tithe and offerings, his friends arrived and inquired where he was taking the money he just put in an envelope. He explained that his tithe and offerings were given to God.

His friends laughed and told him in no uncertain terms that the amount was too much. One of them said, “Why can’t you give a small fraction of it? God knows that you are a student and need money. When you’ll begin to work, then you can give God more money, not now. Keep some of the money for yourself.”

Fabian calmly told his friends that what he was giving to God was insignificant compared to what God gave Him in the person of His Son Jesus. The following day, he took that money to church.

### Appeal

Brothers and sisters, as we return our tithe and offerings, let us remember what God gave to save us. Nothing should be considered too much to be given to God.