---
title: Treasure in Heaven
subtitle: Chapter 17
---

God is the only being in the universe who has life inherent in Himself. Every other living thing receives its life from God and is continually sustained by Him. When the serpent came to Eve in the Garden of Eden, however, he lied to her about the source of life. By flattering her with the notion that she would not “surely die” (Genesis 3:4) despite God’s warning, the serpent implied that humanity was not dependent upon God for life. Eve ate of the forbidden fruit because she was deceived into thinking that she could live her life independent of God.

Today the deception that fooled our first parents continues to bear sway over humanity. Rather than see ourselves as managing that which belongs to God—our lives, our bodies, our children, our possessions—we are tempted to think that everything in this life is ours to do with as we please. The Bible tells a different story. “Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? For you were bought at a price; therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God’s” (1 Corinthians 6:19, 20).

### Accountable to God

In Luke 12 Jesus gives a parable in which a rich man becomes even richer when he is blessed with a bountiful harvest. The man had only God to thank for his riches. His ability to earn an income had come from God, and it was God who gave the sun and the rain and caused his crops to grow. But instead of considering how God might want him to use his riches—perhaps by ministering to those in need or by advancing the spread of the gospel—he decided to build a bigger barn and keep it all for himself so that he could live in ease. “But God said to him, ‘Fool! This night your soul will be required of you; then whose will those things be which you have provided?’ So is he who lays up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God” (Luke 12:20, 21). The man thought that he was accountable to no one and that he could live “for himself.” He was wrong. The moral of the story is that we will one day give an account to God of how we managed what He has given us.

To manage or look after the property of someone else is the definition of a steward. This is a fit description of our role as beings created by God. While the Lord is happy to bless us with life and possessions, all of creation still technically belongs to Him (see Psalm 50:10). Therefore, as stewards of God’s possessions, we need to consider His purposes before deciding how to use money and possessions. And the first step to understanding God’s will in financial matters is to understand the unselfish nature of God.

### The Benevolent Heart

The Bible refers to God as the one who gives us our lives and everything we need—our daily bread, repentance, forgiveness, victory, grace, love, wisdom, the Holy Spirit, the kingdom, and eternal life. He is also the one who “so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son” (John 3:16). The heart of God is a heart of sacrifice and loving benevolence, because “God is love” (1 John 4:8, 16). Giving to others is a fundamental expression of His character. And if our goal is to be like Jesus, then we must learn to give too.

Unfortunately, unselfish and sacrificial giving is not natural to the human heart. It is far more natural to spend money on unnecessary luxuries for ourselves and our loved ones. The devil preys upon this weakness and entices us with the “deceitfulness of riches” (Mark 4:19). We look for contentment in things, only to find that we are less content than ever. This leads to even more spending, which often spirals out of control and results in heavy burdens of debt (see Proverbs 22:7). For this reason Jesus warns us, “Take heed and beware of covetousness, for one’s life does not consist in the abundance of the things he possesses” (Luke 12:15).

Hebrews 13:5 admonishes, “Let your conduct be without covetousness; be content with such things as you have. For He Himself has said, ‘I will never leave you nor forsake you.’ ” This passage reminds us that a personal relationship with Jesus—the one who will never leave us nor forsake us—is the only thing that can bring true contentment. When Jesus is in the heart, our financial choices begin to reflect the benevolent heart of God. We become so thankful for our own salvation that rather than spend merely on temporal possessions for ourselves, we are compelled to invest in the eternal salvation of others. And how do we do this? To answer this question, we will now explore what the Bible says about tithes and offerings.

### The Tithing System

The 12 tribes of Israel each received an inheritance in the land of Canaan—except for the Levites. The Levites were those chosen to lead out in the service of the sanctuary and the worship of God. There was a different plan for this tribe, which God explained in Numbers 18:21-24: “Behold, I have given the children of Levi all the tithes in Israel as an inheritance in return for the work which they perform, the work of the tabernacle of meeting. . . . For the tithes of the children of Israel, which they offer up as a heave offering to the Lord, I have given to the Levites as an inheritance; therefore I have said to them, ‘Among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.’ ”

Rather than inheriting land, the Levites were given “all the tithes in Israel as an inheritance in return for the work which they perform.” The word tithe means “tenth.” Each tribe was required to give a tenth of the increase of their produce, flocks, and herds to serve as the “inheritance” of the Levites for their work in the service of God. The tithe, then, was God’s way of providing for those who were dedicated to religious activities and instruction and could not regularly engage in income-earning activities.

In 1 Corinthians 9:13, 14, Paul asserts that the same system established to provide for the priests who ministered in the temple is today still needed for ministers of the gospel. “Do you not know that those who minister the holy things eat of the things of the temple, and those who serve at the altar partake of the offerings of the altar? Even so the Lord has commanded that those who preach the gospel should live from the gospel.” Here Paul first speaks of those who “serve at the altar”—a reference to the priests—being sustained by the tithes and offerings brought to the temple. He then declares that “even so,” or just as the priests were sustained by the tithe, “the Lord has commanded” that those who preach the gospel today should be provided for in the same way. By faithfully returning tithe, we invest in the spreading of the gospel and partner with God in the mission of saving souls.

### Holy to the Lord

Leviticus 27:30 states that “all the tithe of the land . . . is the Lord’s. It is holy to the Lord.” The tithe belongs to God. Just as it was needed to provide for the priests in Old Testament times, it is needed today to support the pastors, evangelists, and others who are employed in the ministry of the gospel. Because it is “holy to the Lord”—designated by God for this sacred purpose—the tithe is not ours to do with as we please. The returning of God’s tithe, therefore, is a matter of honesty and integrity.

Consider the vivid counsel given in the book of Malachi. It emphasizes not only the sacred nature of the tithe, but also the wonderful promises made to those who faithfully return it to God. “ ‘Will a man rob God? Yet you have robbed Me! But you say, “In what way have we robbed You?” In tithes and offerings. You are cursed with a curse, for you have robbed Me, even this whole nation. Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in My house, and try Me now in this,’ says the Lord of hosts, ‘if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you such blessing that there will not be room enough to receive it’ ” (Malachi 3:8-10).

### Common Questions Regarding Tithe

_What is the amount on which I calculate my tithe?_ In the days of Israel, produce, flocks, and herds represented the “increase” upon which the tithe was calculated. Today, most people will simply pay 10 percent of their gross wages or other income. This would not represent the amount received on a paycheck after taxes are withheld, but the full wage paid before taxes. This is our true increase. Tax refunds and similar reimbursements or overpayments do not need to be tithed.

_What if I don’t have anything left for tithe after paying my bills?_ Proverbs 3:9 says, “Honor the Lord with your possessions, and with the firstfruits of all your increase.” The tithe, or tenth of our increase, should be the first thing we pay—even before our bills. It belongs to God, and we should return it promptly to Him. Keep in mind that God promises to “open for you the windows of heaven” (Malachi 3:10) if you faithfully return the tithe. We can have faith in that promise. In order to faithfully return 10 percent of our income along with freewill offerings, we may need to manage our finances better. But when we have done all we can, God promises that He will provide for us.

_Is it OK to give less than 10 percent?_ To give less than 10 percent is not really tithing, since the word “tithe” means “tenth.” The appeal of Malachi 3:10 is to bring “all the tithes” into the storehouse. If we do, we will receive “such blessing that there will not be room enough to receive it.” This isn’t a promise that we will get rich, but it does mean that God will provide for us, both spiritually and physically.

_Where should I pay my tithe?_ In Old Testament times the tithes of the children of Israel went to the temple “storehouse” (Malachi 3:10), from which the priests and Levites were paid. God gave strict commands to His people not to take their tithes and offerings wherever they chose, “every man doing what is right in his own eyes” (Deuteronomy 12:8), but specifically to the place where the Lord was to “make His name abide” (Deuteronomy 12:11). This would be where the service of God was conducted by the Levites who were sustained from the tithe. Similarly, we should return our tithe to the Seventh-day Adventist Church, which employs the ministers, evangelists, and other workers sustained by the tithe. More specifically, each member should return his or her tithe to the local church where membership is held. From there, the tithe is forwarded to the local conference to be kept in the “storehouse” from which the workers are paid. A portion of this tithe is also distributed to higher levels of the church to support its worldwide work.

_May I allocate a portion of my tithe to any worthwhile ministry?_ The tithe was sacredly set apart to provide for employed laborers in the work of God. Ellen White counseled, “God has given special direction as to the use of the tithe. . . . The portion that God has reserved for Himself is not to be diverted to any other purpose than that which He has specified. Let none feel at liberty to retain their tithe, to use according to their own judgment. They are not to use it for themselves in an emergency, nor to apply it as they see fit, even in what they may regard as the Lord’s work” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, p. 247). In light of this counsel and the biblical use of the tithe, we should include a full 10 percent on the tithe line of our donation envelope.

_Do pastors of big churches get rich while pastors of small churches struggle financially?_ In the Seventh-day Adventist Church, all pastors are paid the same base salary, with only minor adjustments for years of service and cost of living. A pastor’s salary will not be directly increased or decreased by the amount of tithe returned by the local church.

_Should we still return tithe if the pastor or conference leadership becomes unfaithful?_ While we may sometimes disagree with the spiritual leaders who are paid from the tithe, we must remember that we return tithe, not to ministers, but to God. In the days of Malachi, when God instructed His people to return to Him by returning “all the tithes” (Malachi 3:10), the priests who were sustained by that tithe had become corrupt (see Malachi 2:7-9). Yet God still said that the people were robbing God if they withheld their tithe from Him. Ellen White provides wise counsel on how to relate to such a situation: “Some have been dissatisfied, and have said, ‘I will not longer pay my tithe; for I have no confidence in the way things are managed at the heart of the work.’ But will you rob God because you think the management of the work is not right? Make your complaint, plainly and openly, in the right spirit, to the proper ones. Send in your petitions for things to be adjusted and set in order; but do not withdraw from the work of God, and prove unfaithful, because others are not doing right” (Counsels on Stewardship, pp. 93, 94).

### Freewill Offerings

When carefully considering Malachi 3:8, we discover that robbing God happens not only when we withhold tithe, but also in the withholding of offerings. The children of Israel brought offerings with them every time they came to the temple—whether sin offerings, guilt offerings, burnt offerings, peace offerings, or grain offerings. They also gave special offerings for the building or repairing of the temple, the dedication of the altar and the sanctuary, and at the three annual pilgrimages to Jerusalem. The giving of offerings in addition to the 10 percent tithe was a regular part of the worship experience of God’s people. “Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the Lord your God which He has given you” (Deuteronomy 16:17; see also 1 Corinthians 16:2).

The financial needs of the local church today are still sustained by the freewill offerings of its members—above and beyond the 10 percent designated as tithe. While no specific amount is commanded in the Bible for these offerings, it is best to give a fixed percentage of income to your local church. Those returning tithe for the first time may need an adjustment period before giving a substantial freewill offering percentage. They may begin with only 1 or 2 percent. Others may have the means to give 10 to 15 percent. Many Seventh-day Adventist Churches operate on an average of 3 to 5 percent of their members’ income being donated to the local church, above and beyond the tithe.

It is recommended that when contributing these offerings to the local church, you use the line on your tithe and offering envelope entitled “Combined Budget” or “Local Budget.” Money designated to this fund will be used to pay for literature and other evangelistic materials, capital improvements and repairs to church property, utility costs, and many other operating expenses. In addition to local church needs, you may also consider giving to your local conference, world mission fields, media ministries, youth programs, and many other worthwhile endeavors.

The Bible encourages Christians to develop benevolent hearts by giving both liberally and cheerfully: “He who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. So let each one give as he purposes in his heart, not grudgingly or of necessity; for God loves a cheerful giver” (2 Corinthians 9:6, 7). There is a close connection between our financial support of the church and our love for the church. Those who are most invested financially in the cause of God will usually have the greatest sympathies for the cause of God.

### Practical Application

One day Jesus commended a woman for her exceptional benevolence. “And He looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the treasury, and He saw also a certain poor widow putting in two mites. So He said, ‘Truly I say to you that this poor widow has put in more than all; for all these out of their abundance have put in offerings for God, but she out of her poverty put in all the livelihood that she had’ ” (Luke 21:1-4). Perhaps the key to a benevolent heart is not how much we give, but what we sacrifice to give it.

Take time to evaluate your financial stewardship. Are you being honest with God in your tithe—faithfully and consistently returning to Him 10 percent of your income? Are you being generous and sacrificial in your freewill offerings? In the light of eternity, prayerfully consider how much you are investing financially in the Lord’s work. Remember: “Where your treasure is, there your heart will be also” (Matthew 6:21).