---
title: Cheerfulness
subtitle: Week 12
---

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ Think back to what it was like when you were a child. What were you like? What made you happy?
+ On a scale of 1 to 5, how cheerful are you as an adult?
+ Why might it be important to create a cheerful atmosphere in your home as you introduce your little one to Jesus?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore and Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

+ Read Philippians 4:4-7and Proverbs 15:13. Why should we be cheerful?
+ Consider the following quotes. What phrases arrest your attention? How challenging is it to live out these principles in your home?

> “Above all things else, let parents surround their children with an atmosphere of cheerfulness, courtesy, and love. A home where love dwells, and where it is expressed in looks, in words, and in acts, is a place where angels delight to manifest their presence” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 146).

> “Pleasant, cheery words cost no more than unpleasant, moody words. Do you dislike to have harsh words spoken to you? Remember that when you speak such words, others feel the sharp sting … Parent, bring practical godliness into the home. Angels are not attracted to a home where discord reigns. Educate your children to speak words that will bring sunshine and joy (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 147).

> “Smile, parents; smile, teachers … You must win their affection if you would impress religious truth upon their heart” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 148).

> “Home should be made all that the word implies. It should be a little heaven upon earth, a place where the affections are cultivated instead of being studiously repressed. Our happiness depends upon this cultivation of love, sympathy, and true courtesy to one another” (Ellen G. White, _The Adventist Home_, p. 15).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect and Discuss

+ Who sets the tone of the home more: parents or children?
+ How might you talk about Jesus more in your home?
+ Read Psalm 118. How is thankfulness connected to being cheerful?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

This week, read and reflect on the messages in Psalm 118. For a closer look at cheerfulness and thankfulness, also read chapter 27 of _Child Guidance._

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-04-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Ask God to give you more energy and cheerfulness this week and beyond,\
so that you can reflect the joy of knowing Him to everyone around\
you—and especially those who are closest to you.