---
title: Sin and the Law
subtitle: Week 8
---

Someone once said, “Sin takes you further than you wanted to go, keeps you longer than you wanted to stay, and costs you more than you wanted to pay.”

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ How would you define and describe sin to a non-Christian?
+ Do you think sin is a big deal? What message does popular culture send about this question?
+ Sin has affected every aspect of our human existence. In what areas do you see sin having an impact in your life and your child’s life?
+ Some reduce sin to acts of disobedience. Where do you see that sin is far more than just disobeying God’s law?

Some people dismiss sin as just a regular part of everyday life. _After all_, they say, _it’s human nature to indulge in pleasure_. We can tiptoe around the topic of sin, afraid that we’ll offend someone if we call it what it is, but in the end, the more we choose to live comfortably with it, the further we’ll slip from a healthy relationship with God.

Our battle against sin and self is the greatest battle we’ll ever face, with tremendous, eternal implications, yet we so rarely talk about it. Not only does sin separate us from God now (Isaiah 59:2), but it deceives, hurts, consumes, and will eventually destroy us forever unless we accept Jesus, and His gift of grace, into our lives.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

**Read** Romans 3:20 and 1 John 3:4.

+ How does the Bible describe sin?
+ When have you seen, firsthand, how sin destroys relationships (with God and others)?
+ What can we learn about sin in 1 John 1:8, 9?
+ **Read** James 4:17. How can not doing something good be sin?
+ Has obedience to God’s law been easy or hard in your life? What factors have contributed to this?

The law can be seen as a pair of glasses. It helps us clearly see what’s really around us. It’s the Holy Spirit who convicts us of sin (John 16:8, 9) and leads us to Jesus. The Holy Spirit brings clarity and conviction to our lives—and shows us God’s true character and what’s important to Him.

God’s words to the Israelites at Mount Sinai, and to us today (Hebrews 1:1, 2), declare that God’s law is for our good so that we can flourish as human beings. God gave the law as a safeguard to protect our relationship with Him and with others. But Satan has distorted the beauty of God’s law, portraying it as a burden. Rightly understood, God’s law is about love and freedom (James 2:12). The Bible tells us, “For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments. And His commandments are not burdensome” (1 John 5:3).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

+ As a parent, how do you decide what boundaries to have for your child? What does this reveal about you?
+ How has becoming a parent broadened your picture of God and what He wants for you, His child?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

This week, spend some time in personal prayer, asking God to help you to delight more in His law and to see it clearly as a beautiful reflection of His character. Find some time to **read** Psalm 119. Take notice of the clear, beautiful way the law is presented in the Bible’s longest chapter, which lies at the very center of the Bible.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Prayer]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Pray for each other, knowing that we each sin every day and need God’s\
forgiveness. Ask God to keep you from temptation and deliver you\
from evil. Ask for a steadfast heart and a greater desire for a\
closer walk with God.