---
title: Why Do People Leave the Church?
---

Research indicates that most former Adventists did not leave the church because of doctrinal reasons. Some do, of course. But certainly not the majority. Most leave for one of the following four reasons:

1. A conflict with another church member or pastor.
2. Discouragement over personal problems and guilt because of an inability to live up to biblical ideals.
3. A growing disinterest in spiritual things because of a neglected devotional and prayer life.
4. A perception that the church is no longer relevant to life and does not meet felt needs.<sup>4</sup>

Now back to number one— _Conflict_. If a new member, especially—or any member—has a conflict with another member, the feeling of being treated unfairly can produce a tension that increases with time. If no one intervenes to help resolve the conflict, one may decide to leave the church because no one seems to care. The feeling becomes prominent in the mind that he or she doesn’t belong.

_Discouragement and guilt_. When people don’t live up to their convictions as to what the Bible says is the right thing to do, they feel guilty. They may feel that the easiest thing to do is to avoid the environment that accentuates their guilt. Marital conflict, working on Sabbath, or a moral lapse all create a sense of guilt, leading to a feeling of being under the disapproval of the church. This in turn leads to a desire to stay away from church. These individuals need church friends who love, care, and can give assurance, not disapproval.

_Disinterest in spiritual things_. This often comes from a neglected devotional and prayer life. It is so easy today if one allows exciting TV, DVDs, Internet programs, etc. to monopolize the time so there is little or no time for getting to know and connect with Jesus. A direct connection exists between a meaningful devotional life and a vibrant spiritual experience with the Lord. If worldly excitement is predominate, the spiritual aspects of church will soon seem unattractive. Small Bible study groups in the homes during the week could be one means to get members excited about a daily devotional life.

_A perception that the church is no longer relevant to life and does not meet felt needs_. For some, traditional church and Sabbath School activities may seem boring and out of touch with modern real life. To these, church attendance may appear to be little more than a legalistic requirement which takes up valuable Saturday morning sleep time. They may simply give up the church. Dynamic interactive Sabbath School Action Units, where everyone becomes involved in and outside the church, could be a solution. Another would be seminars and discussion groups during the week and occasional sermons that deal with specific felt needs. (The worship service is about worship, so the sermon usually needs to focus on God.)

Three other major reasons people leave the church are: **divorce, lack of assimilation, and growing up in the church.**

1. **Divorce is a major reason for leaving the church**. Many of our members are letting the devil trap them into infidelity or they, because of lack of love, can no longer put up with the idiosyncrasies of their mates. When a divorce takes place, in many cases, it makes the person feel separated from the teachings of the church. Because of our stand against divorce and remarriage without biblical grounds, the person who remarries cannot see how he or she can ever be right with the church. They feel cut off from God. This is especially true of those who are over 40 years of age. They do not try to come back because they feel they are out of harmony with God and His church. Even the innocent parties may feel that church members are uneasy around them.

We must find a way to help divorced people understand that God is willing to forgive all our mistakes and sins if we accept His salvation, and through repentance come to Him for forgiveness.

2. **There are many members who have not been assimilated into the church family**. They have left loved ones and friends to join the Adventist family only to discover that the people in the church don’t seem to care about them, or are too busy to take time to help them make the transition into the church. These new members become discouraged because they have problems in their homes or jobs and no one is there to show loving concern. They carry their burdens until they feel that no one in the church cares or is willing to help. They quit attending and no one visits them. The devil persuades them that they are not worth anything anyway, so they turn bitter and forget the church and begin to doubt the importance of what they have been taught. Surely, they reason, if it were important someone would have shown they cared.

It will take a lot of love and Christian kindness to reverse their view of the church. We need to assist these individuals in finding a fellowship cluster that will help them get in touch with the Holy Spirit through study, reading, or listening. The Holy Spirit will create anew a desire to follow Christ.

3. **Many missing and inactive members are those who grew up in the church**. A large number attended our schools. They learned Adventist doctrines and customs as taught by their parents, teachers, and others, but they were never able to make it their own faith. Teens often rebel in order to establish their own identities. Young adults must make choices to design their own lifestyle, occupation, marriage, values, etc. This happens at a time in life when many leave home, travel, or go away to school. Many Adventist churches do not have a young adult ministry, so it is easy for them to drift away. They may feel that the Adventist faith is old-fashioned or inflexible because of attitudes they have seen in older church members.

You will need to help them discover a living relationship with Jesus and how Adventist doctrine is relevant to their generation and how to find up-to-date ways to live out their faith.

### Excuses for leaving—the rest of the story

To figure into the equation of why people leave, here are concepts from the observations of one pastor who worked to reclaim the missing over a 25-year period. Most members have not left because the church is “cold and uncaring,” but because they do not want to make the self-disciplined commitment to Christ that active membership demands. Even though they state the church was critical, ignored them, etc., when you learn the “rest of the story”— when you investigate carefully—you find these things to be excuses for self-justification. Most fit into these three categories, described briefly here:

1. Some people say, “The same old people always run the church. I wanted to be a deacon, but they wouldn’t let anyone new into their little clique.” However, when one gets to know such people you find they had and still have problems with tobacco, alcohol, Sabbath work, or other side issues.
2. Some people say, “When you are down and out, the church won’t help you; they just kick you out.” However, with investigation you discover chronic financial, emotional, or other problems, and that the church helped them several times. But when they refused to help themselves, the church stopped carrying them.
3. Some people say, “I never felt welcome; no one paid any attention to me.” However, when listening to them, you may discover that their attendance was sporadic and that they made no effort to be part of the group, usually showing up five minutes before the sermon and leaving during the closing song. <sup>5</sup>

Not everyone fits into these categories, but when endeavoring to reclaim such, one should be aware of similar excuses. Still one must not condemn them but work patiently under the direction of Holy Spirit to do all that is possible to reclaim them. We’ll discuss methodology later, but first let’s look at four signs of waning interest that will help you detect backsliding tendencies:

1. Irregular church attendance. If a member’s pattern of attendance changes radically with no apparent reason, something serious is occurring in the life.
2. A critical or ambivalent attitude toward the church and its leadership. Comments such as, “This church is so unfriendly,” or “No one around here seems to care,” or “The leaders are hypocrites,” show a verbal distancing from the church.
3. A change in habit patterns or a return to old ones. Watching TV on Friday nights, withholding tithe, experimenting with tobacco or alcohol are all signs that things are not as they should be. One compromise leads to another, until faith is abandoned.
4. Increasing withdrawal from the fellowship of the church. A declining association with other church members is an indication of shifting interest. A member who skips Sabbath school, comes to church late, and leaves immediately after the sermon is a likely candidate to drop out. <sup>6</sup>

#### Endnotes

<sup>4</sup> Mark Finley, Action Magazine, General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, March, 1993, p. 14.

<sup>5</sup> John Martin, Adventist Review, “The Real Reason People Quit the Church,” September 14, 1998.

<sup>6</sup> Mark Finley, They’re Coming Home. Hart Research Center, 1993, pp. 8, 9.