---
title: "Dealing with Loss: Learning to Grieve When Death Shatters Your Life"
---

_By Frank M. Hasel_

Note from author: in this article, I share my story of dealing with the death of my wife and, much of what I share is taken from my book, Love Is! A Journey of Grief, Grace, and Gratitude (Eugene, OR: Cascade Books, 2024).

We all love stories of happy marriages. They are a glimpses of heaven right here on earth. to experience the unconditional acceptance in such a secure relationship produces happiness and helps us develop our God given potential. A harmonious and love filled marriage is what we all long for, it seems. The selfless support of love, the experience of undeserved kindness and the protection and stability of a faithful companion you can trust for life is what an ideal human relationship looks like, or so we are told.

I had the joy and privilege of experiencing such a marriage. It was carried by mutual trust and love. Although my marriage was not perfect – no marriage is flawless this side of heaven – it was a delightful relationship. Life does not have to be 100% perfect to be beautiful. and our love for each other was beautiful. But what do you do when this beautiful life falls apart? (Hasel, 2024). For many years I was never confronted with severe suffering or death. I experienced a carefree childhood. I enjoyed the comfort and love of family and friends who enabled me to live successfully. I enjoyed our happy marriage, we had three beautiful and gifted sons, I worked as a pastor and was able to get a Ph.D. in theological studies. I had a satisfying academic career and was the dean of a theological seminary. Life was good. I was content. All this changed when I was confronted with a significant loss in 2009. The death of my wife swirled my life around like a tornado. It completely changed my existence. Death often occurs unexpectedly, and frequently much too early. Ulrike (the English phonetic spelling is ool-ree-keh) was only forty-three years old when she was diagnosed with breast cancer. It was cancer of the most aggressive form. She did not choose to have cancer. in fact, none of us wanted it. Ulrike had a bright future ahead of her. She was still very much needed. We all loved her immensely. But less than a year after she was diagnosed with breast cancer she died. Those who knew her can testify that she was an amazingly positive and cheerful person. She was an inspiring example of genuine kindness and self-sacrificing love. Ulrike had a living relationship with Jesus and showed unwavering trust in God. When she died, she was at peace with herself, the people she knew, and God. For her, death was a release from all her suffering. For our three children and me it was – and still is – a very cruel loss.

Mascha Kaléko, one of my favorite poets, lamented the death of her son in the following poem.

The fear of my own death is not that strong,\
it’s just the deaths of those who I adore.\
How shall I live when they are here no more? ...\
He knows it well who can identify; –\
and those enduring it may please forgive.\
Just think: one’s own death one just has to die,\
but with the death of others one must live (Nolte, 2017, p. 101).

Yes, I could face my own death. I was not afraid to die. But living with the death of Ulrike, whose pleasant voice filled my former days and made me feel at home, whom I trusted most and who was closest to my heart, is a different story altogether and it seems to be a life-long learning process for me. Finding new ways to live with the absence of the very person that meant so much to me is a steep and tough learning experience. Confronting the reality of death and facing the harsh reality of living without her is brutally painful. Suddenly the very things that I had taken for granted, life itself, was no longer secure.

Finding new ways of arranging my life as a widower without the person I loved so completely is easier said than done. Losing the one you love so deeply is a tough road to walk. It is the stuff of nightmares. I used to think that the story of losing my wife was a liability. It is often awkward meeting people who do not know what to say when they hear what happened. People feel sorry for me, even after years have passed. Losing the love of your life is not something that is attractive. Being a widower makes me feel that I do not fit into familiar social groups anymore. But over time I realized that my story can also be a blessing. Sharing what happened to me is particularly effective in connecting with other people across time and space who have gone through similar experiences.

There is a certain fellowship in loss into which we are drawn when we experience it. It can be a relief to discover that the aches we think are ours alone are also felt by so many others. and it is good to know, especially as a man, that it is all right to cry, that it is all right to turn to others for help, that it is all right to be confused and not to know what to do, that it is perfectly normal to have feelings of envy and anger, that it is all right to be scared of living without the person you love so much, not knowing how to master the future alone. It is also all right to see that there are still moments of light and hope, of unexpected support and encouragement. There are glimpses of faith. These precious parts of the story need to be told as well and deserve to be shared.

of the many things that could be talked about and that I have shared in greater detail in my book (Hasel, 2024). I would like to briefly point out two aspects that have become meaningful and significant in my grieving experience. The first is that grief is synonymous with the loss of many things, but not for a lack of love. in fact, grief exists because we love (Hasel, 2024, p. 67-70). Grief only exists because it is an expression of our love for the person who died. Just as incredibly complex and rich, our love weaves its way in every part of who we are. Grief touches us in remarkable and often rather unexpected ways, reminding us of things we shared, and that we loved. The smell of her favorite perfume. A picture that reminds you of a vacation spent together. Her favorite music. A hymn sang at church that resonates with my experience. The list is endless. Grief is as numerous and as complex as the love that created those countless moments that made life beautiful and interesting. I once believed that there are certain stages of grief that I had to master to finally get over it. I thought that I had to learn to leave grief behind and move on. Should it surprise me then, that many years later I still think of her almost every day? No! Not at all! How could I ever forget her? Some may think that I am stuck in my grief and that I need closure so that I can move on. But I don’t feel stuck in my grief. I am a happy person. I live a delightful life. I love all my son’s and my daughter-in-law and my sweet granddaughter. I have a fulfilling and satisfying career that challenges me to learn new things and helps me grow in knowledge and skills. I enjoy the company of a few very good and close friends. I am content – and mostly happy. Yes, I miss my wife. Why shouldn’t I? It makes sense to me. She was my first love. She is the mother of my sons. I still love her. Will I ever stop loving silently her who I once loved out loud? Grief, like love, is not a process that is neatly divided into different stages that you can pass through and finally leave behind. This is not how grief works. But if we understand that we experience grief only because we have experienced love, we realize that we grieve our loss only because we loved the person in the first place. The stronger our love for the person who died, the more intense our grief will be. Our grief is proportional to the depth to which someone we love has touched our life. Grieving by its very nature confirms worth. It is only when we understand our grief as an expression of our love that we gain a helpful and healing perspective of how to process it. This is true no matter whether you stay single or remarry.

The memory of your love remains. Love is! Love does not want to be left behind. Love does not want to “move on.” True love wants to be there – with the other – forever. to expect to leave this behind and forget about it would mean to forget and ignore our love. to move on without grief would be a betrayal of our love. The challenge is to integrate grief into our lives in such a way that we can see it as part of our love. We will continue to live, and we will continue to grieve, because we continue to love. This love will be with us as we discern new ways of living without forgetting. The good news is: grief lasts as long as love last!

The other important lesson I learned in my grief is the lost art of lament (Hasel, 2024, p. 46-51). Many confessing Christians find it difficult to express their true feelings when facing tragedy, suffering, and loss. The discrepancy between the pain they feel over the loss of a loved person and the way they piously talk about it may lead to greater problems and can even negatively affect our spiritual perception and hinder a healing process in dealing with loss in life. The biblical practice of lament, however, helps us to deal with suffering, injustice, and the pain of death in healing ways. Lament invites us to be honest to God and to express our grieve and trust, our struggling and our believing. Lament is an expression of faith in which we honestly wrestle with the paradox of the reality of pain and the promise of God’s goodness. Lament is not complaining as an end in and of itself. Biblically speaking lament is only possible if we believe in God’s mercy, goodness, and grace. It is rooted in the conviction and hope that God will ultimately deliver, that God is good and almighty. Without such a belief there would be no lament! Lament helps us deal with the harsh reality of a hard and unfair life while trusting in God’s love and ultimate sovereignty. It processes our pain. Without the practice of lament bitterness and anger will quickly dampen our spiritual life and even kill it. Lament acknowledges the injustice that is in this sinful world and that bad things happen even to very good people while still declaring that suffering and pain will not have the final say. God is not offended by our lament. The Psalm writers have taught us repeatedly to express lament. It is interesting to note that at least one third of the 150 psalms are laments. This makes lament the largest category in the Psalter. And, one entire book of the Bible, the book of Lamentations, is devoted to lament! in lament we stop pretending. in lament we acknowledge that we are no longer in control or our situation. in lament we honestly pour out our heart to God in our felt absence of God’s shalom. The example of numerous biblical writers and heroes of faith tells us that lament is not wrong (Vroegop, 2019). in fact, it is essential to deal with pain and suffering in healing ways. But true lament can happen only in the context of a trusting and loving relationship with God. It is not a wallowing in our complaints. As we surrender our pain and even the things we do not understand, He shifts our focus toward God Himself. in biblical lament our last word is about the object of our hope, the very one all laments long for and lead us to: Jesus, who through his suffering and death on the cross has saved us and who therefore understands our frailty and need (Hebrews 4:15-16).

to be honest with God without pretending, to be vulnerable in His sight and to express my fears to the One who does understand even though I do not understand, has a transforming effect. I cannot explain this experience. I can only humbly testify the truth that as painful as the death of a deeply loved person is, there is a miracle that is even greater than this terrible experience and that is God’s amazing grace. The Bible tells us that “the Lord’s lovingkindnesses indeed never cease, for His compassions never fail. They are new every morning. Great is Your faithfulness (Lam. 3:22-23 NASB). While death and grief can cause us to fall abysmal deep, we fall no deeper than into the loving arms of God. For his heart is touched by our grief and he is the one who sustains us even when we don’t understand. You are not alone!

#### References

Hasel, F. (2024). Love is! A journey of grief, grace, and gratitude. Cascade Books.

Nolte, A. (2017). The poems of Mascha Kaléko (p. 101). Fomite.

Hasel, F. (2024). Love is! A journey of grief, grace, and gratitude (pp. 46-51). Cascade Books. Hasel, F. (2024). Love is! A journey of grief, grace, and gratitude (pp. 67-70). Cascade Books. Vroegop, M. (2019). Dark clouds, deep mercy: Discovering the grace of lament. Crossway.

_Frank M. Hasel, PhD is an Associate Director for the Biblical Research Institute at the General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, Silver Spring, MD, USA._