---
title: Jesus’ Recipe For A Happy Marriage
---

> <p></p>
> “Nearby stood six stone water jars... Jesus said to the servants, ‘Fill the jars with water’; so they filled them to the brim” (John 2:6, 7).

There was a crisis at a wedding Jesus attended. It was the custom to always serve the best wine first, and then serve the inferior wine. When Jesus turned the water from those six water jars into the best wine anyone had ever tasted, the wedding party was amazed. This was unusual. It was an important lesson for the newly married couple and for us today. Most newlyweds put their best energies (like new wine) into the first part of their marriage. But after the years go by and problems arise, their efforts become weak (like old wine). Christ wanted to show that, with Him, a marriage is good in the beginning, but will be even better in the end. Based on this Bible story, here is a plan for a happy marriage.

The most important jar to fill in a marriage is the jar of love. Genuine love is essential for a happy marriage. Physical attraction is temporary. Appearance and beauty are not the foundation of happy marriage. True love is based in mutual understanding, companionship and spiri tual affinity. Love is also based on respect and esteem for our partner. When both show honor to the other, there will be a good foundation for marriage.

When we are close to Christ there is no fear, but love. God will give us the ability to love. When we are far from Christ there cannot be a divine, deep and real love between two people. Yes, we can love each other, but when we give our lives to Christ, God pours into our hearts a greater ability to love, an unknown deeper dimension.

Robert Burns re-wrote 1 Corinthians 13. His paraphrase reads: “My home could be filled with worldly riches, but if does not have love it will be an empty shell. My home could be place where intelligent people meet, but if does not have love it will just be a noisy house. My home could send letters to important government officials, it could fight for the welfare of all humanity, but if does not have love, its influence would soon disappear. The spirit of a true home is very patient and kind. It does not envy, it does not march in parades, it does not boast, it is never offended, or selfish, or angered. It has no resentment. A loving home never is happy when it hears of sadness in another home. It is always careful to not mention the private problems in other homes. It is always anxious to believe the best, is always hopeful, and is always tolerating! The home will never disappear. Civilizations will vanish; knowledge will become obsolete and institutions will cease. For now we know little and we see only a glimmering future, but when the true home spirit guides the affairs of the world, then God’s perfect kingdom will be established. Now, may these three continue forever in our homes: faith, hope and love. The greatest of these is love!”

Each day we should fill to the brim jars of heaven’s love. If we did this, love in our marriages would never run dry.

“Those who truly delight in the love of God will have joy and peace” (Ellen G. White, The Faith I Live By, p. 237).

_— Léo Ranzolin, Jesus, the Morning Dew, p. 181_