---
title: Desire to Grow
subtitle: Week 3
---

Consider what your worst parenting moment has looked like. Certainly we’ve all had moments of anxiety, impatience, immaturity, or anger. Babies have an uncanny way of revealing our weaknesses. They are very needy, they can’t be reasoned with, and they aren’t very good at doing what we want! With these still-developing little beings in our care, our own selfish natures can be a time bomb waiting to explode, especially when we’re tired.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ As we consider the worst parts of our own characters, what gives us motivation to grow more like Christ?
+ When you “explode” or let your selfish nature take over, do you later tend to be too hard on yourself, too lenient, or fairly balanced? What makes you say that?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

Read Ezekiel 36:25-27 and Hebrews 8:10-12. These passages tell us how God will empower us to grow.

+ As the parent of a little baby, I might feel pressured to “do everything.” What do these two passages have to say about what God does?
+ What does this new covenant experience look like, in a practical sense, in my parenting?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Read the following quote quietly, then discuss in a group. Which aspects resonate most with your own experience with Jesus?

> “Many have an idea that they must do some part of the work alone. They have trusted in Christ for the forgiveness of sin, but now they seek by their own efforts to live aright. But every such effort must fail. Jesus says, ‘Without me ye can do nothing.’ Our growth in grace, our joy, our usefulness—all depend upon our union with Christ. It is by communion with Him, daily, hourly—by abiding in Him—that we are to grow in grace. He is not only the Author, but the Finisher of our faith. It is Christ first and last and always. He is to be with us, not only at the beginning and the end of our course, but at every step of the way” (Ellen G. White, _Steps to Christ_, p. 69).

Growing a heart of love for our babies cannot be separated from our growing love for Jesus. During the next 10 weeks we will discuss 10 qualities that help us grow in love. Which of these topics stand out to you and why? At this point in the journey, which ones do you see might be challenge areas for you?

- Affection
- Obedience
- Comfort
- Encouragement
- Discipline
- Safety and Security
- Patience
- Boundaries
- Worth
- Identity

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

Ask God to reveal something in your life that He wants to transform in order to make you a better parent. Write down whatever He impresses upon your heart, and keep it in your Bible. During the next 10 weeks, pray daily for God to do His miraculous work in your life.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Prayer]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Ask God to help you look away from yourself as the solution to\
spiritual failings and accept His gracious power on your behalf.\
Thank Him for being a loving Father who can re-create you\
from the inside out.