---
title: To Know God
subtitle: Week 2
---

Having a clear, correct picture of God’s character is foundational to having a close, flourishing relationship with Him.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ What three words first come to mind when you think about God?
+ Do you think your picture of God is an accurate, clear, biblical picture?
+ What has contributed to your picture of God?
+ What picture of God, and which of His character traits, are important and helpful for you as a parent?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

**Read** Genesis 3:1-5.

+ What was Lucifer’s goal in his conversation with Eve?
+ What lies did he tell Eve about God’s character?

Ultimately, Satan’s message to Eve was this: God is keeping secrets from you. God doesn’t want what is best for you. You can’t trust Him. “From the opening of the great controversy it has been Satan’s purpose to misrepresent God’s character and to excite rebellion against His law” (Ellen G. White, Amazing Grace, p. 130).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Paraphrase

In pairs, read the following quote silently. Then invite one person to paraphrase the first four sentences and the other person the second part of the quote, briefly discussing the message given to us.

> “It is the darkness of misapprehension of God that is enshrouding the world. Men are losing their knowledge of His character. It has been misunderstood and misinterpreted. At this time a message from God is to be proclaimed, a message illuminating in its influence and saving in its power. His character is to be made known. Into the darkness of the world is to be shed the light of His glory, the light of His goodness, mercy, and truth… The last message of mercy to be given to the world is a revelation of His character of love” (Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 415).

Having a clear knowledge of God’s character is important. Let’s explore just a few of God’s characteristics:

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#c18967", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Holiness—void of all evil and sin; nothing but goodness

+ If we do a study into the attributes most often associated with God’s character, we’ll discover that holiness is at the very center of who God is. But what does that really mean? Read how the Bible describes God in Leviticus 20:26; 1 Samuel 2:2; Isaiah 57:15; and Ezekiel 38:23 for insight. Holiness is a deeply relational term. God wants us to be with Him and be like Him.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#c18967", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Love—unselfish and pure

+ What does 1 John 4:7-19 explain to us about love?
+ Read 1 Corinthians 13:4-8 and replace the word “God” where it says “love.” How does this expand your understanding of God’s character?
+ If you were to place your name where it says “love,” which descriptions would you like to see more fully in your life as a child of God?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#c18967", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Jesus—God with us

+ What do the Gospels teach you about what God is like?
+ When was the last time you read one of the Gospels and met Jesus in the pages of the Bible to see God close up? This week, spend just a few minutes each day to meet Jesus again, there.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

In the week ahead, consider how you might expand and deepen your picture of God. **Read** Job 37 and 38. Listen to chapter 1 of the book _Steps to Christ_. Take a walk in nature and pray and look for evidence of your Creator.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Pray for God to impress your mind with a clearer picture of Him as you\
read His Word and pray this week. Pray, too, that you will have a correct\
picture of God as you find simple ways to share Him with your baby.\
This is one of the single most important tasks you have as a parent—to nurture\
a healthy, accurate picture of God in your child’s mind.