---
title: A Lasting Heritage
date: 08/17/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, The fruit of the womb is a reward.

4Like arrows in the hand of a warrior, So are the children of one’s youth.

5Happy is the man who has his quiver full of them; They shall not be ashamed,

But shall speak with their enemies in the gate. (Psalm 127:3-5)

### Observation

Posterity is often represented as a blessing from God (Ge 30:2, 18; Ge 30:2, 18, 1Sa 1:19, 20). Children are represented as the defenders (arrows) of their parents in war, and in litigation. [Jamieson, R., Fausset, A. R., & Brown, D. (1997). Commentary Critical and Explanatory on the Whole Bible. Oak Harbor, WA: Logos Research Systems, Inc.]

_**heritage… reward.**_ Children were seen as God’s gift, and a sign of His blessing (v. 5). See 25:13; 37:26; 112:2; 115:14; 127:3–5; 128:2–4, 6; 144:12. [Andrews Study Bible Notes. 2010 (J. L. Dybdahl, Ed.). Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press.]

### Application

Looking at the definition of the word “heritage” in an online dictionary we get these different usages (not all are listed):

1. something inherited at birth, such as personal characteristics, status, and possessions

2. anything that has been transmitted from the past or handed down by tradition

3. any property, esp land, that by law has descended or may descend to an heir

In the Bible, we also find at least two usages:

1. the Israelites regarded as belonging inalienably to God

2. the land of Canaan regarded as God's gift to the Israelites

A heritage, in general terms, is something given or left to someone’s descendants. What I find interesting in our text for today is that children, who would receive our heritage, are God’s heritage to us. They are God’s way of showing us His love for us.

When parents of young children may at times feel overwhelmed with their parenting tasks – disciplining them, answering countless questions, ensuring they are doing their school work, teaching them to do house chores, and countless other things – they may wish at times their kids would grow up quick and be gone. I’ve actually heard parents say things such as, “I can’t wait ‘till they leave!”

Having to young-adult daughters who don’t live at home anymore I can say we truly enjoy when they are home and wish those times would take place more often than they do. What joy they bring to our hearts when they’re here, and how painful it is when they leave. I have friends who have lost children through accidents or after an illness, and they have expressed the deep pain they experience and the longing to have them back.

Enjoy your children, and their time at home. A friend of mine shared a powerful thought: “Learn to appreciate what you have before time makes you appreciate what you had.”

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, thank You for giving us our children as Your gift to us. Help us to appreciate that special gift and to leave to them the heritage of our love for them.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._