---
title: Read
subtitle: Week 7
---

Reading the Bible daily, and gently bringing its messages into our lives and homes, will make an eternal difference.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

Share a time you made a decision that, afterward, you were really glad you made.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Pray

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

Read Colossians 2:6, 7. These verses invite us to walk with God.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Personal reflection

As you honestly look into the details of your life, what phrase best describes your walk? Has it been . . . behind God . . . far from God . . . ahead of God . . . away from God or . . . with God close at your side?

- What will help you become “rooted and built up in Him and established in the faith” so you are “abounding with thanksgiving”?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect

“The Bible is God’s voice speaking to us, just as surely as though we could hear it with our ears. If we realized this, with what awe would we open God’s Word, and with what earnestness would we search its precepts! The reading and contemplation of the Scriptures would be regarded as an audience with the infinite one” (Ellen G. White, _Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 6, p. 393).

- How would you share this thought in your own words?

This quote reminds us that when we read God’s Word, we are not just reading the Bible; we come to know God through reading the Bible.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Select one of the following verses:
- Zephaniah 3:17
- Isaiah 43:1
- Psalm 34:18
- Psalm 116:1, 2
- Psalm 31:16, 19, 24

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Then learn more about the message of the verse(s) with the help of the following process:
1. Pray for understanding.
2. Write out the verse(s).
3. Underline the words or ideas that stand out to you the most.
4. Write what you think God is saying to you through the verse(s).
5. Write or pray a response to God.

Think about whom you can share this message with today.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

It can be challenging to find time to spend with God in His Word every day. This week, commit to spending even a few moments with God with a short passage or story. Use the structure above or write down what you learn. Each day, share what you find with your spouse or a friend.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-01-bb-pth/01/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
“Live in contact with the living Christ,\
and He will hold you firmly by a hand that will never let go”\
(Ellen G. White, ^[Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing]({"style": {"text": {"typeface": "PTSans-Italic"}}}), p. 119).\
\
Pray for God to give you the desire\
to spend time with Him reading the Bible every day.\
Ask Him to hold you firmly by your hand,\
and never let you go.