---
title: Healthy Choices
subtitle: Week 6
---

What are some famous quotes about health in your culture? You might have heard: “Health is not valued till sickness comes” or “You are what you eat, so don’t be fast, cheap, easy, or fake” or “Healthy eating is a sign of self-respect.”

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ How much of a priority is healthy living to you and your family?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

Read 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20; 10:31; John 6:35; and Proverbs 3:7, 8.

+ What does the Bible say about our bodies and our health, in general terms?
+ How might good or bad health impact our efforts at growing character?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Read and Discuss

The flow-on effect that our healthy choices have on our children (through breastfeeding, for example) is evident in research. You may have heard of the NEWSTART principles to healthy living: Nutrition, Exercise, Water, Sunshine, Temperance, Air, Rest, and Trust in God. As you read the following summaries, consider: What do I want to continue doing, start doing, or stop doing (for both yourself and with your family and baby)?

^[Nutrition.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) A plant-based diet was the original diet God had in mind for us (see Genesis 1:29), along with foods we should not eat (see Leviticus 11). Studies have shown that people who have adopted a healthy vegetarian diet have a much lower risk of developing and/or dying from many diseases.<sup>6</sup> A balanced, plant-based diet can also help you to maintain a healthy weight, help prevent depression and anxiety, and improve your ability to think well.<sup>7</sup> “The importance of training children to right dietetic habits can hardly be overestimated. The little ones need to learn that they eat to live, not live to eat. The training should begin with the infant in its mother’s arms. The child should be given food only at regular intervals, and less frequently as it grows older” (Ellen G. White, Counsels on Diet and Foods, pp. 229, 230).

+ How difficult is it to follow a plant-based diet with the foods available in your culture?
+ What changes could you make to increase your intake of nonprocessed, plant-based foods?

^[Exercise, Water, Sunshine, and Fresh Air.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) Exercise is essential for our mental, physical, and spiritual health. Just 30 minutes a day can make a big impact on well-being, and also prevent certain diseases. God made our bodies 
to move!

God designed our bodies to be made of about 65 percent **water**. For babies it 
is even higher—about 75 percent. Older children and adults should drink six to eight cups of water each day.

When Adam and Eve left the Garden of Eden, God made a plan that would keep them active in the **sunshine** and **fresh air** (see Genesis 3:17-19). Although we may not all be farmers, we still need vitamin D and fresh air each day. Open a window to avoid stale and polluted air, and if possible, get your vitamin D by being outside in the sunshine. Your sleep, skin, and cellular health will improve.

^[Temperance, Rest, Trust in God.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) God wants to give us **rest**—a good seven to eight hours of sleep each night. Find ways to sleep when your baby sleeps, or when your spouse or friend is caring for your baby. Sabbath is also a time to spiritually rest and recharge. God also wants us to live with **temperance** and self-control, and abstain from things that are unhealthy, such as alcohol, tobacco, drugs, caffeinated drinks, and media addiction. It also means moderation in other areas of life, such as work, socializing, and studying. When we **trust in God**, we give Him our worries.

+ On a scale of 1 to 5 (1 being very low and 5 being great), how healthy do you think you are right now? How does media or a device keep you distracted from healthy habits?
+ How can you establish healthy patterns when your child is young to set them on a good path for their future? What, specifically, might you do to achieve this?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-04-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Challenge and Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
This week, for a deeper dive into the benefit of healthy living, read chapters 16 and\
57 of _Child Guidance_. Write out Proverbs 3:5-7 and Isaiah 55:8, 9 and prayerfully\
reflect on this message from God to you.

---

{"style":{"text":{"size": "xs"}}}
<sup>6</sup> M. Fukuda & D. Fukuda, Habits That Heal: Habits From America’s Longest Living People (Prescott, Ariz.: Souls Publishing, 2015), pp. 59, 60.\
<sup>7</sup> N. Nedley, The Lost Art of Thinking: How to Improve Emotional Intelligence and Achieve Peak Mental Performance (Ardmore, Okla: Nedley Publishing, 2014), pp. 145-190.