---
title: How to Give the Bible Study
---

- **_Pray earnestly_**. Jesus said, “Without Me ye can do nothing” (John 15:5, NKJV). Jesus is the center, focus, and essence of every study guide. Jesus must also be the center, focus, and essence of your life.
  1. To be successful in working for others, one must have the power, presence, and guidance of the Holy Spirit at every step. Claim this in earnest prayer.
  2. And claim the promise: “In this work all the angels of heaven are ready to co-operate. All the resources of heaven are at the command of those who are seeking to save the lost. Angels will help you to reach the most careless and the most hardened.”<sup>11</sup>
- _Ask yourself, “What is the **purpose**_ of this visit or study? What decision do we want? How can I make it Christ-centered? How can it make Jesus more attractive and aid in a decision to accept and follow Him?”
- _Prepare well_ with underlining, highlighting, and comments and illustrations jotted in the margins of your study guides. Plan enough to make it interesting, but not too long, especially the first time.
- _Dress appropriately_.
- _Have plenty of materials_—study guides and, (if possible), Bibles, support booklets, and tracts. There may be other prospects at the study.
- _Be optimistic_. Never think or talk of failure. “Workers for Christ are never to think, much less to speak of failure....The Lord Jesus is our efficiency in all things”<sup>12</sup>

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>11</sup> Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 197.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>12</sup> Gospel Workers, p. 19.