---
title: Discipleship Plan Overview
---

In the Discipleship Handbook church pastors and local leaders have everything they need to implement a systematic plan for the discipleship of newly baptized church members. In this plan each new member of the local church should be paired with a mentor (as a rule, male with male, female with female, or married couple with married couple) by the pastor or other church leader. The mentor uses the weekly meeting outlines provided in this appendix, along with the 26 chapters of the Discipleship Handbook, to guide the new member through a six-month process of enlightening study, rewarding service opportunities, and warm fellowship with the church. If weekly discipleship meetings are held in a small group rather than a one-on-one setting, a mentor should still ensure that the items listed in the meeting outlines are completed for each new member.

Discipleship mentors will generally work under the guidance of their local church’s personal ministries department or designated discipleship ministry leader. Mentors, in addition to new members, will receive great spiritual benefit from being involved in this discipleship ministry. Still, not everyone may be ready for this responsibility. Pastors and church leaders should involve mentors who love both God and people, who are caring and responsible, who will keep a weekly time commitment, and whose beliefs and practices are in harmony with the Bible. Periodic mentor meetings, in which the personal ministries or discipleship ministry leader provides support and accountability to mentors, are also highly recommended.