---
title: Church Members and Media Ministry
subtitle: Chapter 11
---

No one can deny that the advancement of technology has changed our personal lives in significant ways. The same can be said of the influence of technology on the mission of the church. Never before has it been so easy to share the Adventist message. In the 1800s a church member couldn’t just share a YouTube video of a favorite speaker preaching the truth about the Sabbath. Today we can.

Today’s church is incredibly privileged to be able to so easily share powerful, Spirit-filled presentations, among other things, with our friends and communities. Of course we should never lose sight of the importance of drawing close to those we’re trying to reach, or of the need to share the truth from our own hearts in addition to what we share through websites and videos. Yet when infused with personal interaction and follow-up, church members who take advantage of the witnessing opportunities afforded by new technology have found 
great success.

#### The Essential Role

There are many media ministries in the Seventh-day Adventist Church actively planting seeds of truth. These include ministries with headquarters at the General Conference, such as Hope Channel and Adventist World Radio. They include ministries led by communications or media departments at every level of the church, including thousands of local church-based media ministries. And they include long-established ministries such as the Voice of Prophecy, Faith for Today, It Is Written, Amazing Facts, Breath of Life, and 3ABN. Yet for all the wonderful work being done, many of these ministries have not yet reached their full potential for one primary reason. The collaborative effort needed between media ministries and local church members has not yet been fully realized.

> <callout></callout>
> We can’t make disciples with books or videos alone.

We must always remember that the mission to go and make disciples was given to the disciples themselves (see Matthew 28:18-20). It takes people to make disciples. “The Lord desires that His word of grace shall be brought home to every soul. To a great degree this must be accomplished by personal labor. This was Christ’s method” (_Christ’s Object Lessons_, 
p. 229). We can’t make disciples with books or videos alone. Therefore, every media ministry is entirely dependent upon the members of local churches for the all-important personal contact. This vital role of church members in media ministry falls into two categories:

1. Sharing and promoting media content
2. Following up media interests

Media ministries produce and collect high-quality sermons, seminars, interviews, and documentaries. They create television and radio programming, professional web pages, podcasts, and YouTube channels. The individual members of the church generally can’t produce such material on their own. But just as members need media ministries, these ministries need church members in order to be truly successful. First, they need members to share their material with others and get the word out about their resources and programming. Second, but no less important, they need members who will follow up personally with those who have been reached by their ministries.

#### Share and Promote

Church members should consider the media produced by the various media ministries of the church to be valuable tools in their own witnessing efforts. As Seventh-day Adventists, we all share in the goal of telling the world about the soon return of Jesus Christ. Thus, in a very real sense church members are local representatives of the ministries that broadcast this message. Not only can they offer their prayers and financial support, but the value of their personal influence makes them the best promoters of these ministries to their friends and families. Distant personalities and programs, as powerful as they might be, still need tangible, local members to interact with the people in their own communities. Here are several ways church members can share and promote the content and programming produced by media ministries:

**Group Events or Studies**—One of the best ways to combine personal interaction with the programming produced by a media ministry is to host a livestream evangelistic event or a viewing of prerecorded video presentations (using DVDs, YouTube, or Internet downloads). Instead of waiting for your church to hold an evangelistic meeting, host a small one in your own home! Invite friends, coworkers, family members, neighbors, and church visitors to view a video series on prophecy, health, or some other topic of interest. Provide a warm home, a light meal or refreshments, a friendly smile, and a caring spirit. If you feel a bit nervous about leading out in a Bible study, using videos by your pastor or by an evangelist you appreciate is a great way to ease yourself into it.

**CDs, DVDs, and USB Drives**—While physical forms of media may be on their way out, we should be careful not to exclude them completely. There are still people who have CD or DVD players in their cars or homes, some of whom are intimidated by viewing, downloading, or purchasing digital files directly off the Internet. Common and effective ways to use these forms of media are to share CDs of Sabbath sermons and DVDs of evangelistic meeting presentations. USB drives are another good way to give someone a full series of presentations in a small package. The obvious benefit of physical forms of media is that you can distribute them in person, which is preferable. The downside is that many people—especially in the younger generation—are no longer using these forms of media. One caution before duplicating and sharing messages in this way is to be careful not to infringe on any copyright laws.

**Email and Text**—Sharing Internet links to video sermons, audio podcasts, free Bible study offers, articles, books, tracts, and other spiritual content via email or text can be highly effective when done prayerfully and selectively. Between text and email, texting is preferred in most cases. It is more common, and people are more likely to see texts than emails on their cell phones. The key in either case is that these messages are shared by someone they know personally.

**Social Media**—One of the best ways to share a video or other online content with a large number of friends at one time is over social media. Different regions of the world utilize different social media platforms, so be sure to identify and use the most popular platforms for your area. Videos posted to social media are most likely to be viewed if they are kept under one or two minutes. Be sure that your captions and comments posted on social media are kind and respectful, reflecting the Spirit of Christ. Otherwise, the media you share and any positive message you attempt to send may not be taken seriously or could even have a negative effect.

One way for the content you share to gain as wide an audience as possible is to use hashtags, which are words or phrases preceded by the hash sign (#). Adding hashtags to your social media posts enables people to find them when interested in that specific topic. People may look up #Adventist to learn more about Adventists or #Sabbath to learn more about the Sabbath. Churches with active social media users may want to create a hashtag that all members can use when posting about local church initiatives and events. Hashtags have the potential to become quite popular and attract a lot of positive attention.

**Electronic Literature**—There will always be a need for printed material, even in a digital age. But how can we share the truth-filled tracts and books we love with those who prefer electronic media?The General Conference Publishing Department has developed a helpful website, where anyone can read, download, and share digitized versions of print literature.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
For electronic versions of many tracts and sharing books, go to www.sharinghope.com.

**Online Bible Studies**—There are some people who are interested in Bible studies but who would rarely if ever leave the Internet in their search for knowledge. These people wouldn’t be interested in printed lessons, which is why online Bible studies such as those offered at www.bibleschools.com are essential. In the past, online lessons were done anonymously, and there was no way to know who was completing these lessons. But online Bible schools are now connecting online students with church members who live in the same local community. This is a wonderful opportunity for church members to connect online evangelism with human relationships.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
For more information on how your church can connect with online Bible students, email discoverschool@vop.com.

**AWR Cell Phone Evangelism**—Adventist World Radio has developed an innovative and effective way for church members to share biblical audio messages as “cell phone evangelists.” After a simple sign-up process, the church member receives a teacher contact code, which they can actively share with friends and acquaintances. When this code is texted by the church member’s friends to the AWR chatbot number, they are automatically signed up to receive powerful evangelistic messages on audio every week. The church member is given updates on the activity and progress of their interested friends. As a cell phone evangelist, the member interacts with his or her friends about the audio messages, asking for questions or prayer requests and maintaining open communication.

This system has already resulted in thousands of people regularly listening to biblical messages and multitudes of people being baptized around the world. The first key to its success is the fact that nearly everyone has a cell phone that they keep with them throughout the day. Second, the audio messages are convenient because they can be listened to while driving or doing other activities. And finally, the system set up by AWR is simple and easy for church members to use. Remember, technology will never reach its evangelistic potential unless it is combined with personal contact by someone who cares.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
The AWR chatbot works on a variety of platforms. For the chatbot number, and to get resources and training on how to become a cell phone evangelist, go to www.awr.org/training or send your questions by email to cpe@awr.org.

**Hope Channel App**—Hope Channel has developed an easy way to share inspiring videos through which the gospel is proclaimed. Simply tell your friends and acquaintances to search for and then download the Hope Channel app onto their favorite device. Many of Hope Channel’s nearly 60 global affiliates have hours and hours of Christ-centered television programs available in many languages. Freely accessed through the Hope Channel app, these programs address a wide range of topics. No matter whom you meet, there is likely a program in the Hope Channel app that will interest them.

**Promotional Cards and Flyers**—There is a lot of good Adventist programming that the people in your community may know nothing about. To remedy this, distribute cards or flyers advertising the Adventist radio, television, and online programs and stations for your local area. If your church offers free Bible study resources through a website, you can advertise this and other church websites. It is recommended that you limit the number of sites on one card or flyer to only a few. An advertisement fully dedicated to one ministry or website will be generally most effective.

#### Follow-up Media Interests

Adventist media ministries have a genuine concern for the people who contact them with questions, prayer needs, or requests for material. They offer whatever help they can, but if they aren’t local, their interaction is limited to periodic phone or email contact. Many people would respond favorably to someone visiting them to offer prayer, a sympathetic ear, an invitation to a local event, or more spiritual materials. By doing this, you may also find people who are interested in studying the Bible with you or in attending a Sabbath church service. Here’s what you need to know about following up media ministry interests, whether generated by a local church or a larger media ministry:

**Preparation**—You or someone in your church, such as the personal ministries leader, should periodically contact any Adventist media ministries that: (1) reach into your church’s territory, and (2) keep contact information of those who interact with the ministry. Ask these ministries for a list of anyone in your local area who has requested materials, enrolled in a Bible school, or otherwise expressed interest. When you’re doing this, it’s important to explain that church members intend to visit these interests for follow-up, and to note carefully any instructions given by the ministry’s representatives. Be sure also to collect the contact information for any interest generated through your local church’s media ministry.

When visiting media interests provided by an outside organization or ministry, you are representing that ministry rather than your local church. One of the first tasks of the visit is to help the interest to recognize the ministry you’re representing. Bring along a brochure with the ministry logo or even a picture of the ministry speaker (if applicable). If you’re following up on those who have taken a Bible course, take a copy of the first lesson in the series to show at the door. When contacting the media ministry, request a pack of these lessons and some sharing gifts you can give to thank those you visit for their support and interest in the ministry. Many ministries will have these and be happy to send them to you.

If you have emails and phone numbers for media interests, you may be tempted to call or email these individuals before visiting. But this is not recommended. People tend to turn down visits offered over the phone or through email, especially if they don’t know you. Many of the same people who quickly decline a visit over the phone would actually be open to accepting literature or Bible studies if these were offered to them by someone friendly and respectful at their doors.

Before visiting media interests, decide what approach you want to take. Will you invite them to an upcoming event? Will you offer them personal Bible studies? Has the interest already been taking Bible studies through correspondence? Consider the following canvasses based on three different approaches.

**Church Event Invitation**—Here is a sample canvass for visiting a media ministry interest with an invitation to a prophecy seminar:

> “Good [afternoon/evening], I’m [your name], and this is my friend [your partner’s name]. We represent [name of media ministry], a Christian [TV or radio] ministry that broadcasts in this area on [give station channel and time]. Do you recall watching [or listening] to [name of speaker]? Today we’re visiting those who have contacted or requested materials from [name of ministry]. We first want to thank you for your interest, and we have a little gift for you [give ministry brochure and any other small gift items from the ministry].

> “We would also like you to know about a free Bible prophecy seminar that is coming to this area beginning [give date]. This brochure gives all the details [point out speaker, some of the topics to pique their interest, and other details such as location, child care, etc.]. We know you would be blessed by this seminar, and we hope you’ll consider attending! Here’s how you preregister [show instructions on brochure].

> “Well, it was nice to meet you! We’d like to have a short prayer with you before we go. Is there anything special you’d like us to pray for? [Take requests and offer brief prayer.] Thank you for your time, and we hope to see you at the seminar.”

**Bible Study Invitation**—Here is a sample approach for visiting a media ministry interest with an offer to take Bible studies:

> “Good [afternoon/evening], I’m [your name], and this is my friend [your partner’s name]. We represent [name of media ministry], a Christian [TV or radio] ministry that broadcasts in this area on [give station channel and time]. Do you recall watching [or listening] to [name of speaker]? Today we’re visiting those who have contacted or requested materials from [name of ministry]. We first want to thank you for your interest, and we have a little gift for you [give ministry brochure and any other small gift items from the ministry].

> “We also would like you to know about a free set of Bible study guides we are offering [open the Bible study guide and explain how to fill it out, then hand it to the interest as you share a few common questions these lessons will answer]. These lessons are our gift to you. Study this first one on your own, and then I can come back and we can review it together. Does that sound of interest to you? [If the interest seems hesitant to meet with you, suggest that the lessons can also be completed alone, and you can simply deliver a new lesson or two each week.] Wonderful! When would be a good time to come back next week to review the lesson and give you a new one?”

**Correspondence Bible Study Follow-up**—Here is a sample approach for visiting an interest who has already been taking Bible studies through a correspondence Bible school operated by a media ministry:

> “Good [afternoon/evening], I’m [your name], and this is my friend [your partner’s name]. We’re local representatives of [name of Bible school]. I understand you have received some of our Bible study guides in the past [show a sample of the first Bible lesson in the series]. How did you first learn about our Bible school, and how have you enjoyed the lessons so far? How many do you think you’ve completed? That’s wonderful!

> “I’d like you to know about another set of Bible study guides I think you’ll really like. They’re called [give name of lessons, hand the first lesson to the interest, and offer selling points about that specific series of lessons]. We personally deliver these guides free of charge so we can help answer any questions you may have or even review the lesson with you, if you choose. People find they get a lot more out of the Bible studies this way and complete the course faster, too. Would this be of interest to you? [If the person says yes, leave the first lesson and set up a time to return the following week to review the lesson together and bring the next study guide.] It was a pleasure meeting you, and we’ll see you next week!”

Finally, here are a few helpful suggestions when visiting media ministry interests:

- If the individual doesn’t remember making contact with the media ministry, don’t worry. Simply explain a little about the ministry, give the free gift, and continue with what you planned to offer.
- It’s often the case that media ministry interests turn out to be Seventh-day Adventists. To determine if this is the case, you can ask such questions as: “Did you learn about this ministry from your church or somewhere else? How long have you been watching/listening?”
- If the media ministry interest asks about denominational affiliation, simply tell them it is a ministry of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.

Adventist media ministries plant millions of seeds of truth every year, many of which would benefit greatly from being followed up by a visit from someone local. Someone like Christine. Christine was a church member who learned from an Adventist media ministry about a woman who had completed a series of correspondence Bible studies. The woman also indicated that she was interested in finding a church. Rather than call, Christine chose to visit the woman at her apartment. It took several attempts, but eventually Christine found her home. Christine offered to meet once a week for Bible studies, and invited the woman to church. The weekly studies helped the two women to build a trusting relationship as they discussed life’s most important questions. Eventually the woman began attending church and was baptized. In time, her husband was also baptized. This precious couple were ripe media interests that might still be wandering outside the fold of the remnant church if they not been visited by a dedicated member. God will help you as you partner with Adventist media ministries in providing the personal touch so needed in the great mission of making disciples.

#### Personal Media Ministry

Digital evangelism is not limited to sharing content from church media ministries. Members can also utilize technology to share their own devotional thoughts and Scripture passages with others. They can post encouraging and challenging messages that will serve as a welcome contrast to the river of negativity in the news and culture around them. Spiritual messages cause people to think and, in some cases, reach out for dialogue. Many life-changing conversations have been started when somebody saw a challenging post, blog, or quote. Social media groups and online chat rooms have also been created and used by members to hold spiritual discussions with those they’re trying to reach.

> <callout></callout>
> Members can also utilize technology to share their own devotional thoughts.

In addition to written messages, church members can also record podcasts or videos, stream live on social media, or utilize video conferencing software to witness to others. Recording your own video or podcast is easier than ever, and it can be done with only a smartphone. Streaming live on social media enables church members to broadcast everything from large spiritual events to small family worship experiences with devotional thoughts and music. The use of video conferencing equips members to host group Bible studies with people who are both nearby and far away.

Consider how you can use technology to share your own spiritual messages with others, while also utilizing the content produced by the church and its supporting ministries. Share media, get the word out about programming, and follow up on interests. With your help, and the help of church members around the globe, millions of seeds planted through technology and media will bear fruit for the kingdom of God.