---
title: A Powerful Relationship
date: 03/20/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> “You shall not intermarry with them, nor they with you. Surely they will turn away your hearts after their gods." Solomon clung to these in love. (1 Ki 11:2 NKJV)

### Observation

Solomon, as wise as he was, married hundreds of women, many of who were from the people God had forbidden Israel to have any relationship with. It was these women who led him to commit idolatry, the sin for which Solomon’s children lost the kingdom God had give to David.

### Application

As we read of the lives of David and Solomon, both had several things in common: Both were chosen to be kings of Israel, both were prophets, both were inspired, both did many good things for God and for his people, both had multiple wives. But where they were different was that David remained loyal to God while Solomon worshiped the idols that his wives brought with them from their own countries. Without going too deep into the implications, I think we can safely draw a few conclusions:

1. God knows the danger of entering into a marital relationship with someone of a different faith and forbids it. While many Adventists have led their spouses to God and to the church, the number of Adventists who have left the church because of their spouses is alarming. Marriage is such a powerful emotional relationship that some people may be driven away from God by their spouse. From the very beginning we observe the power of this relationship when Eve led Adam to sin by eating of the forbidden fruit. Adam could not see himself with Eve and chose to die with her rather tha live without her not trusting that God would do what’s best for him.

2. Adultery must not be the worst of all sins. While we would not condone adultery at any time, at the same time we should not make it the worse of all sins and shun people who commit adultery. In David’s case, not only did he commit adultery but tried to cover it with murder, and yet God said of David that he was a man after His own heart. Solomon had multiple wives, and yet God blessed him with great wisdom.

3. What God DOES take great offense at is idolatry – turning away from Him to worship other gods.

Again, we do not wish to excuse adultery in any way, shape, or form. We do discourage marrying someone of a different faith. We must never turn from God to worship idols, whatever and whoever they may be.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, may we always worship You and never idols, may we always be faithful to You and to our spouse, and may Your love always cover us.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._