---
title: "The Care and Rescue of Members Who Left the Church: “Reencounter Project”"
---

_Emanuel Guimarães_

The church, throughout its history, has developed various methods of evangelism to reach people and has achieved great growth, yet many members have stopped attending church, departing from God’s ways. Apostasy is a real problem in practically every denomination.

When we analyze a local church, we find basically three ways or methods of growth.

The first way is growth by evangelism. We reach out to new members through public and personal evangelism. Public evangelism is like fishing with a net—the fisher seeks large numbers of fish; personal evangelism is like a fisher catching one fish at a time. In public evangelism the retention rate may be higher or lower depending on the location and ability of the local church to receive these new converts. In personal evangelism, however, retention rates are higher.

The second way is biological growth: we grow up with children of church members born of believing parents in Adventist faith and doctrine. In countries in which the birth rate per family is currently low, this factor has been reflected in the aging of the church because there are not many children and young people, and so the biological growth is very low.

The third way of growing a local church is to increase the number of members by transfer. Members move for many reasons and circumstances; they ask for their transfer letter and are received into the new community, increasing the regular number of members of that community.

### A New Method

The local church grows by evangelism, biological growth, and transfers. But there is a new and extraordinary way or method that seeks to evangelize and bring back to the good shepherd’s fold those who have stopped attending church and turned away from God’s ways. It is the evangelism that we call the Reencounter Project, with excellent results and wonderful experiences.

There is currently a lot of research on the loss of church members. But a survey, which caught my attention, was conducted in São Paulo, Brazil, with two groups of people: those who left the church and turned away from God and have not returned yet; and those members who departed from the church, returned, were rebaptized, and are today firm in the faith.

### Reasons Members Left the Church

With the first group of members, who left the church and have not yet returned, various reasons were given similar to the various surveys already conducted on loss of church members— problems such as relationships, personal problems, and many other issues with very small rates. Some of these answers are understandable, but most of the reasons were not relevant, considering that many still had a hurt heart and feelings.

The second group of members is composed of former members who have returned to the church, were rebaptized, and are now firm in the faith. They cited several factors similar to research already conducted. But one important and crucial question was asked: What was the main reason or motive that caused you to actually leave the church?

The answer presented two very relevant points: (1) a spiritual crisis in their life; (2) a personal decision to abandon the faith.

### Reasons the Members Returned

The reasons former members return to church are interesting and important for the local church to understand its missionary and spiritual role in the rescue. The following points were cited in general terms:

1. They missed the fellowship with church members. The sense of community and fellowship greatly marks the lives of church members.

2. They felt a stronger desire to return when they encountered a very warm, cordial, and Christian church reception.

3. Music plays an important role in life, and many felt strongly influenced by music to return.

4. Other variable factors were cited, in very small percentages and similar to the surveys already conducted.

But a crucial and important question was asked directly to those who left the church, returned, and are firm in their faith today: What was the strongest, most relevant feeling or factor that made you really decide to go back to God’s ways?

The impact of the answer is very impressive and enlightening. They answered that the main factor was discovering that someone was constantly praying for them, not giving up interceding before Christ so that they would be impressed to return. And a second main reason was finding out that someone in the church really cared about them personally, showing Christianity and patience, and seeking to fulfill their necessities.

Basically, we can conclude that most leave the church for spiritual reasons and return for spiritual reasons. Certainly, it is the action of the Holy Spirit through people who have interceded in prayer that touches the hearts of former members.

Redeeming members who have left the church has to do with spiritual matters and is a way to develop missionary discipleship.

If we begin a great movement of faith, prayer, and work ,“many who have strayed from the fold will come back to follow the great Shepherd.”<sup>1</sup>

The cause of spiritual decline and lack of involvement in mission that have led many to apostasy is the loss of evangelistic passion. A vision of discipleship in the local church toward this rescue ministry is decisive. Christ’s parables illustrate God’s desire to save those who are lost.

Herbert Lockyer, quoting F. W. Boreham, makes an interesting observation: “Mathematics are cold and unconvincing and cannot explain everything. The lost sheep represented 1 percent loss— one out of a hundred; the lost silver meant a 10 percent loss—one out of ten; the lost son was a 50 percent loss—one in two.”<sup>2</sup>

It doesn’t matter if it’s just 1 percent, 10 percent or 50 percent losses. The most important is who goes to get the lost ones who have left the church. Our greatest mission is to go out and seek the sheep that has strayed from God’s ways. In fact, the sheep knows it is lost, but it does not know the way back, and it desperately needs help. Ellen White wrote: “The sheep that has strayed from the fold is the most helpless of all creatures. It must be sought for by the shepherd, for it cannot find its way back. So with the soul that has wandered away from God; he is as helpless as the lost sheep, and unless divine love had come to his rescue he could never find his way to God.”<sup>3</sup>

### Faith, Prayer, and Work

Caring for and rescuing members who have left the church is a discipleship and retention process that involves faith, prayer, and work. The process of growth in faith applies to these three points as well. According to Ellen White: “For the disheartened there is a sure remedy—faith, prayer, work. Faith and activity will impart assurance and satisfaction that will increase day by day.”<sup>4</sup>

Rescuing of members who have strayed from the ways of the Lord is a biblical calling. James wrote: “My brothers and sisters, if one of you should wander from the truth and someone should bring that person back, remember this: Whoever turns a sinner from the error of their way will save them from death and cover over a multitude of sins” (James 5:19, 20, NIV).

The church must challenge its leaders to apply this principle of discipleship and spiritual growth for their members to grow in faith, seeking to save those in the family of faith as well. And the church will be strengthened with mission-oriented actions in which pastors play a key role. “The best help that ministers can give the members of our churches is not sermonizing but planning work for them . . . . If set to work, the despondent\ will soon forget their despondency; the weak will become strong; the ignorant, intelligent, and all will be prepared to present the truth as it is in Jesus.”<sup>5</sup>

### Members’ Participation in the Reencounter Project

The involvement of members of the church in the care and rescue of former members develops a very contagious evangelistic and missionary passion for the following reasons: 1. The community of faith and the sense of a large family is a very strong feeling in the church, so losing a member is very painful for those who really love one another. John wrote, “By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another” (John 13:35, NIV). This Christian love is not inert when it knows that there are sheep of the Lord Jesus needing to be rescued. 2. The low operating cost of reunion evangelism facilitates the local church’s involvement in this rescue ministry. 3. The friendship factor has a strong influence on the members. Many of them have developed fraternal relationships for a long time; some have even grown up together in that local community and this is a facilitating factor for Reencounter Project evangelism. 4. Knowledge of the doctrine speeds up the process of preparation for rebaptism, as they need only a few reinforcement studies at some issues in their Christian journey.

#### Tangible Results

In the experience developed over the past five years in the Central Brazil Union and in the South American Division, results show great gospel victories in the lives of members who returned to the church and were rebaptized through the Reencounter Project. In the Central Brazil Union 18.2 percent of all baptisms achieved were the result of redemption of members by rebaptism. In South America it was 12.9 percent; this represents 154,202 rebaptisms. This is a very important factor in church growth rates.

### Reencounter Project Strategies

With the awakening to search for members who left the church, some strategies were developed:

**1. Reencounter Project Held in Partnership With the World Ten Days of Prayer Project**

The local church is prepared three to six months before rebaptism. A church preparation sermon is preached for the work of visitation and intercessory prayer by distributing the names to the visiting team. A lecture on visiting members who have left the church is very important at this stage of preparation. During these months leading up to the Ten Days of Prayer, church members intercede and regularly visit former members. On the first Saturday of the Ten Days of Prayer, members participate in the local Ten Hours of Fasting by interceding specifically for the people they are praying for and visiting in recent months, so they decide to rebaptism. These special days DVDs with testimonies of returning church members are delivered to the former members, along with other QRCode materials and brochures, which will facilitate contact with other important materials to inspire and nurture these brethren in their faith-building. At the end of the Ten Days of Prayer, we have a great Reencounter baptism ceremony.

This project is very effective because the focus on prayer and caring for the former members is the biggest return factor in reconnecting with members who have left the church.

**2. Reencounter Through Sabbath School Class**

At the beginning of the year, the church secretary and the elder in charge of evangelism of members who left the church make a list of irregular members and those who have left God’s ways. Sabbath School teachers receive names that are distributed per class. Names are passed on to visitation pairs formed within the class. Members receive the prayer card, visit, and plan for intercession for members who have left the church. Each month of the year a rebaptism is performed through the Sabbath School class responsible for that month. Thus, throughout the year the rescue is carried out. The Reencounter Project follow-up is done through the Sabbath School card, which mentions each Saturday the members for whom the class is praying and working for to be back on church.

**3. Reencounter Project in the Evangelistic Weekend in the Local Church**

The local church schedules in its annual calendar a special weekend to hold the Reencounter Project. In this weekend’s schedule a baptism is held to appeal to former members to return to the church. Prior to the program, invitations with QRCode with beautiful testimonies and DVDs are distributed. It is very important to have a careful preparation in the program and sermon, as they must focus on those who have left the church. This evangelistic weekend is very practical and easy to be carried out in the local church.

**4. Reencounter Project Through Youth Prayer Week**

Youth Prayer Week is done with an emphasis on evangelism for those who have left the church.

Young people and church members are looking in advance to visit and invite formers members to attend this special week. They receive QRCode invitations that feature beautiful testimonies videos and DVDs are distributed.

Powerful altar calls are made for former members to return to the church. After this week, the church continues helping and supporting those who answered to the appeals.

**5. Public Evangelism Caravan**

Church members visit former members and invite them for a one-day evangelism program. They deliver invitations and DVDs. An evangelist pastor preaches each night in a different church within the Caravan project.

The preparation of the members for the baptisms that are performed on this special night is done months in advance for the Caravan day. The evangelist makes special altar calls to those who left God’s ways to return to the church.

After the Evangelistic Caravan, the church continues to assist those who accepted the appeal.

**6. Robe of Faith Project**

This project is very interesting and very effective. Because former members are visited and receive a Robe of Faith kit that includes a baptismal robe, a DVD with beautiful experiences of people who have returned to God’s ways, and an invitation to the Reencounter meeting. All former members are included in the local church members’ intercession project. After being assisted and followed up, they are rebaptized. The robe they received as a gift is donated by the rebaptized member to someone who needs to return to God’s ways.

There are several actions that result in the redemption of members who have left the church. And how can we apply this? Choosing and experimenting with the local church the method that is best for each reality. The tried methods encourage us to make the Reencounter:

- Accomplished in partnership with the World Ten Days of Prayer Project
- Through Sabbath School classes
- Conducting the Reencounter Project on a special weekend at the local church
- With Youth Prayer Week
- Through the Caravans of Public Evangelism
- Personal Evangelism with the Robe of Faith

### Materials Produced for the Reencounter Project

Materials were prepared for two groups of people: church members and former members.

Church member materials:

- **Intercessory Prayer Card**: Church members are challenged to pray for two or three former members and to visit them. The card is placed on in their Bible for constant remembrance.
- **Sermons**: 1. Motivation and appeal to church members—is for training on how to carry out the Reencounter project. Usually it is preached three to six months prior to Reencounter Project Day. 2. Reencounter Sermon—It is designed for Reencounter Day for the purpose of reaching former members.
- **Sabbath School Membership Card**: There is a special space to write the names of those who are away from the church. Each Saturday the teacher and class intercede in prayer. Class members are assigned to visit and pray with them. So the work is done all year round.

The materials for former members are: Invitation card with QRCode, website with exclusive materials and a specific Facebook link for contacts, and testimonies from those returning to the church.

All these actions are aimed solely at seeking and rescuing those who were once in the church. To strengthen new members and prevent dropouts after baptisms or rebaptisms, members are enrolled in the Discipleship School in the “New Creature” Project, where they learn about worship; Sabbath sanctification; tithes and offerings; personal health care and how to preach the gospel.

The Reencounter Project has reached thousands of members who once left the church. But our challenge is to seek every sheep that is far from God’s ways and bring it back to the good shepherd’s fold. This is the challenge of love for the mission that Christ has given us all.

_Emmanuel Guimarães has served the church in several areas, as a pastor, evangelist, ministerial secretary, publishing ministries, Global Mission, Sabbath School and personal ministries, health, ADRA, and during the past nine years he has been executive secretary of conference and union (Central Brazil Union Conference). He holds a master ́s degree in leadership from Andrews University and in theology from UNASP in Brazil. He is the author of several books and articles on church growth. His joy is to train people to preach the gospel and also to rescue members who have left the church. He appreciates reading and swimming. He is married to Lourdes and has three married daughters, Jacqueline (physiotherapist), Gracielle (lawyer), Viviane (physician), and a granddaughter, Julinha._

**Endnotes:**

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _Testimonies for the Church_ (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1948), vol. 6, p. 401.

<sup>2</sup> F. W. Boreham, in Herbert Lockyer, All the Parables of the Bible (Grand Rapids: Zondervan, 1963), p. 282.

<sup>3</sup> Ellen G. White, _Christ’s Object Lessons_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1900, 1941), p. 187.

<sup>4</sup> Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1917), p. 164.

<sup>5</sup> Ellen G. White, Testimony Treasures (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1949), vol. 3, p. 323.