---
title: Social Gatherings and Gluttony
date: 10/03/2025
---

_John A. Scharffenberg_

> <p></p>
> When you sit down to eat with a ruler, consider carefully what is before you; and put a knife to your throat if you are a man given to appetite. Prov. 23:1, NKJV.

Socializing with others is an important part of a healthy lifestyle, whether it be at church fellowship meals, picnics, weddings, or fancy banquets.

But when you attend these special events, the counsel in Proverbs 23:1 is: You don't have to eat everything offered. Even at the highest levels of society ("when you sit down to eat with a ruler"), the advice is to "consider carefully what is before you." Just because you find an incredible variety of foods and everything tastes so good, it isn't a license for you to stuff yourself. In fact, Solomon says you should "put a knife to your throat if you are a man given to appetite." The New International Version says: "if you are given to gluttony."

Scripture gives this advice for two good reasons. First, if you eat everything and eat too much, it's not healthy. Second, think of the example you can be by choosing healthful items and eating in moderation.

Don't boycott a social event because the food served doesn't conform to your dietary standards. Consider the example of Jesus.

"While Christ accepted invitations to feasts and gatherings, He did not partake of all the food offered Him, but quietly ate of that which was appropriate for His physical necessities, avoiding the many things that He did not need. His disciples were frequently invited with Him, and His conduct was a lesson to them, teaching them not to indulge appetite by overeating or by eating improper food. He showed them that portions of the food provided could be passed by, and portions chosen.

"Christ went to these feasts because He wished to show those who were excluding themselves from the society of their fellow men how wrong their course of action was. He wished to teach them that truth was given to be imparted to those who had it not" (Ellen G. White Manuscript Releases, vol. 7, p. 412).

So enjoy socializing with others, but just remember: "A right example will do more to benefit the world than all our profession" (Christ's Object Lessons, p. 383).

> <callout></callout>
> How can you be a positive example to others at the next social event you attend?

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._