---
title: Bitter Water
date: 04/06/2025
---

_David J. DeRose_

> <p></p>
> When they came to Marah, they could not drink its water because it was bitter. . . . So the people grumbled against Moses, saying, "What are we to drink?" . . . The Lord showed him a piece of wood. He threw it into the water, and the water became sweet. Ex. 15:23-25, NIV.

In December 1993 water treatment facilities for Washington, D.C., experienced serious problems. Because of the great possibility of contracting infection, local authorities told residents to avoid drinking tap water. Similar problems have occurred in other cities and towns.

In addition to water treatment facility problems, natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, and tornadoes will threaten water quality. Campers and backpackers in North America as well as travelers drinking tap water in certain countries abroad may become ill from contaminated water.

Even crystal-clear water can harbor serious illness. For example, giardia, a parasite, often inhabits seemingly pristine running streams.

How can we guard against becoming infected from contaminated water? Do we need some advanced antibiotic or other drug? The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention tells us that we can kill all dangerous organisms by bringing water to a rolling boil for one minute. (Increase the boiling time if you live at elevations significantly above sea level.)

The remedy for microbially contaminated water is simple and inexpensive. It is the same with the remedy for life's trials. In fact, God used the illustration of impure water to teach this lesson:

"For every trial, God has provided help. When Israel in the desert came to the bitter waters of Marah, Moses cried unto the Lord. The Lord did not provide some new remedy; He called attention to that which was at hand. A shrub which He had created was to be cast into the fountain to make the water pure and sweet. When this was done, the people drank of the water and were refreshed. In every trial, if we seek Him, Christ will give us help. Our eyes will be opened to discern the healing promises recorded in His word. The Holy Spirit will teach us how to appropriate every blessing that will be an antidote to grief. For every bitter draft that is placed to our lips, we shall find a branch of healing" (The Ministry of Healing, p. 248).

> <callout></callout>
> Think of a time when you came to the "bitter waters of Marah" and recall how God brought blessings out of bitterness. Praise the Lord, for He is good.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._