---
title: Cultivation
subtitle: Chapter 25
---

Once the soil has been prepared and the seeds have been planted, the cultivation phase begins. Cultivation is the process of helping plants to grow. It includes giving them adequate sunlight and water and proper nutrients, removing weeds that would choke out their growth, and protecting them from the elements. In some respects the cultivation phase is the most vital part of the entire growth process because it requires more time and labor than any other phase. While it takes only a few days to prepare the soil, plant the seeds, or harvest the crop, the cultivation of new plants takes several months.

Once the heart has been softened through soil preparation and interest has been generated by planting seeds of truth, the next step is to cultivate the interest by engaging the person in regular Bible studies. Here is where the one for whom you are laboring grows in his or her understanding and application of the Word. The truth of God’s Word provides the “nutrients” needed to grow, and it gives light and power to remove the “weeds” of false doctrines and sinful habits.

### The Importance of Giving Bible Studies

One of the greatest needs in the church today is the need for church members who will cultivate spiritual interests by giving Bible studies. Few understand the incredible potential that exists in the church if only more of its members would commit to giving one Bible study per week.

It is possible for someone who has never attended a health ministry event to become a baptized member. It is also entirely feasible that someone might never attend a church social, a Vacation Bible School, or an evangelistic meeting before baptism. However, there is one thing that every Seventh-day Adventist must do, to one degree or another, before being baptized. Everyone must go through Bible studies. Here is where the truth grips the heart and decisions are made to believe and practice in harmony with the Seventh-day Adventist Church.

In the manufacturing industry, a bottleneck is the part of the production process with the slowest rate of output. A company can waste a lot of time and money increasing efficiencies in other areas, because the total output will still never be greater than the amount produced by the area identified as the bottleneck. The only way to increase the total output is to increase the rate of output in that particular area.

In the evangelism process the bottleneck is often Bible studies. While many church members volunteer in other worthwhile areas, only a small percentage are involved in this vital ministry. We can increase our labors in every other area, but most of our churches will never see a significant increase in the harvest until more of their members are giving Bible studies. When this happens, it will open the bottleneck, and our growth will be exponential.

### A Bible Study Reformation

God Himself inspired the question-and-answer Bible study format, which is so common today, so that church members could have a simple way to share Bible truth. The discovery of this simple method goes back to the early years of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.

It was the summer of 1883, and at that time the truth was spread primarily by tracts and literature or by preaching to crowds. Elder S. N. Haskell was preaching in a tent meeting in southern California when a severe storm arose. The thunder was so loud that the people could not hear the speaker, and there was thought of canceling the meeting, when Elder Haskell was struck with a divinely inspired idea. He called the people to crowd around him in the center of the tent and began to call out a question followed by a text, which they were encouraged to look up. Then he would call on one or another to read the text aloud. In this way he was able to conclude his message, and the effect was powerful! The people had seen many of their questions answered straight from their own Bibles and were deeply impressed with the truth.

After the guests had dispersed, one of them—Elder W. C. White—shared with his mother what had taken place that night. On the next day, Ellen White met with Elder Haskell and the other ministers and told them that the meeting described to her was in harmony with the light she had received from the Lord. God had given her a vision in which she saw hundreds and thousands of Seventh-day Adventists going into homes and sharing the truth in this same way.

A description of the vision is found in Testimonies for the Church: “In visions of the night representations passed before me of a great reformatory movement among God’s people. . . . Hundreds and thousands were seen visiting families, and opening before them the Word of God. Hearts were convicted by the power of the Holy Spirit, and a spirit of genuine conversion was manifest” (vol. 9, p. 126). This powerful vision revealed God’s plan for a mighty reformation among His people—a Bible study reformation!

### A Heaven-born Idea

Elder Haskell was inspired by Ellen White’s vision to provide simple instruction for sharing the Bible using the same question-and-answer format that he had used. In October of that same year he established a 10-day Bible Reading Institute for the training of laypeople. (At that time “Bible studies” were called “Bible readings.”)

One of our leading papers carried a general announcement to all Adventists, encouraging them to attend the training. It read: “Not only young men and women are wanted, but men of mature years; even if their heads are sprinkled with gray hairs, they are none too old to visit families and tell what God has done for them, and read the Scriptures” (S. N. Haskell, in Signs of the Times, October 18, 1883, p. 465). Ellen White would later write, “The plan of holding Bible readings was a heaven-born idea. There are many, both men and women, who can engage in this branch of missionary labor” (Christian Service, p. 141).

It is worth noting who was being recruited to give Bible studies. Old and young, men and women—anyone who could tell what God had done for them and read the Scriptures. Here was the genius, the “heaven-born” wisdom, of the Bible study method. Here was the secret to the excitement it generated in the church. No longer was the church dependent upon the ministers alone to spread the truth. Here was a method that would empower thousands of laypeople and be an important means of finishing the work.

### Discovering the Power

There are some who view the giving of personal Bible studies as being simplistic or mechanical. Nothing could be further from the truth. Those who hold this view have not understood the tremendous power of giving Bible studies, which are perfectly suited to meet the needs of a sin-sick world.

First, Bible studies employ the power of the Word. The Lord has promised, “My word . . . shall not return to Me void, but it shall accomplish what I please, and it shall prosper in the thing for which I sent it” (Isaiah 55:11). We must never forget that it is the Word of God that creates spiritual life in the soul. Peter reminds us that we are born again, “not of corruptible seed but incorruptible, through the word of God which lives and abides forever” (1 Peter 1:23). Ellen White concurs: “The creative energy that called the worlds into existence is in the Word of God. This Word imparts power; it begets life. . . . It transforms the nature and re-creates the soul in the image of God” (Education, p. 126). This power is in the personal Bible study!

Second, giving Bible studies binds us to the hearts of those for whom we labor. Occasional deeds of kindness are often lauded for their expressions of love, but they do not compare to the love conveyed by giving someone a regular weekly Bible study. While it may not feel like a sacrifice to study with someone week after week, the one with whom we are studying takes note of the tremendous amount of personal time being invested in his or her salvation and spiritual growth. The time spent communicates love in a way that few other actions could. Furthermore, giving Bible studies is not merely for disseminating information, but to offer help in discovering and applying the salvation offered in God’s Word. It is an intimate experience to struggle alongside someone as the Bible speaks to the deepest needs of the soul.

Finally, giving personal Bible studies is essential for the growth of the one giving the study. This is why Ellen White wrote, “Among the members of our churches there should be more house-to-house labor in giving Bible readings and distributing literature. A Christian character can be symmetrically and completely formed only when the human agent regards it as a privilege to work disinterestedly in the proclamation of the truth” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, p. 127). And again: “Let ministers teach church members that in order to grow in spirituality, they must carry the burden that the Lord has laid upon them—the burden of leading souls into the truth” (Christian Service, p. 69).

The best way to remember what we know, and to grow in our knowledge of the truth, is to share the knowledge we already have. “He who begins with a little knowledge, in a humble way, and tells what he knows, while seeking diligently for further knowledge, will find the whole heavenly treasure awaiting his demand. The more he seeks to impart light, the more light he will receive. The more one tries to explain the Word of God to others, with a love for souls, the plainer it becomes to himself. The more we use our knowledge and exercise our powers, the more knowledge and power we shall have” (Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 354).

### Don’t Forget to Ask

We can typically find Bible study interests among those with whom we have been preparing the soil and sowing the seed. These might be family, friends, coworkers, neighbors, church visitors, or those who have attended an evangelistic meeting or other church event. Bible study interests are also often found through literature evangelism and other door-to-door outreach, or by mailing Bible study invitation cards to those in your community. While the sentiment of many today is that people “just aren’t interested in the Bible anymore,” we must let the words of Jesus be our guide. He told us “the fields . . . are already white for harvest” (John 4:35). He also said, “The harvest truly is plentiful” (Matthew 9:37). Do we believe Him? Though it will sometimes require searching, there is no shortage of people who are open to studying the Bible.

“All over the world men and women are looking wistfully to heaven. Prayers and tears and inquiries go up from souls longing for light, for grace, for the Holy Spirit. Many are on the verge of the kingdom, waiting only to be gathered in” (The Acts of the Apostles, p. 109).

Here are a few ways that you might ask someone to join you for a series of Bible studies:

- “I recently came across a set of Bible study guides that answers the most commonly asked questions about the Bible. I’d like to go through them, and I’m wondering if you would have an interest in doing them with me.”
- “I am looking for someone who would be interested in studying the Bible together with me, and I thought of you. Would you be interested in meeting once a week for an hour or so to study God’s Word?”
- “I have been going through a discipleship program at my church, and one of the things they are asking us to do is go through a series of Bible lessons with someone. Would you be willing to go through a set of topical Bible study guides with me?”

The reason most people never find someone with whom to study the Bible is that they never ask. Regardless of the method you use, the secret to getting Bible studies is the same. Just ask!

### How to Give a Bible Study

Giving a Bible study is much simpler than most people realize. It is not necessary to be a seasoned Bible scholar. All it takes is a willing heart and a love for souls. You can give ongoing Bible studies in either a personal or small-group setting, generally with the aid of a printed lesson. There are many lesson guides from which to choose that are in a simple, question-and-answer format. Other resources you can use include a marked Bible, personal notes, or video presentations. Here are some simple steps to giving a Bible study:

1. Prepare your heart (Psalm 37:5). Pray for the converting power of the Holy Spirit in your own life. “Without a living faith in Christ as a personal Savior, it is impossible to make your faith felt in a skeptical world. If you would draw sinners out of the swift-running current, your own feet must not stand on slippery places” (Gospel Workers, p. 274).
2. Prepare the lesson. Choose a set of Bible study guides and go through the first lesson on your own. Fill in the blanks, if applicable. Thoroughly familiarize yourself with the lesson. Highlight the two or three most important points and circle the questions that address these. Make personal notes of a few thoughts and personal experiences you can share during the study.
3. Work with a partner. Invite another church member to accompany you to the study. This way you can encourage one another, connect the Bible study interest to more than one person, and have someone to fill in if you cannot make it to the study. For these and many other reasons, Jesus sent His own disciples out two by two (see Luke 10:1; The Desire of Ages, p. 350).
4. Arrive at the study on time. This shows that you value your Bible study interest’s time, and helps build trust.
5. Socialize before the study. Socializing is an important part of giving personal Bible studies. It helps you to relate better to your Bible study interest on a personal level. Socializing before the study, rather than after, allows you to leave on a spiritual note.
6. Pray before you begin the study. Ask the Holy Spirit to guide you into all truth (see John 16:13).
7. Keep the study interesting by encouraging involvement. Ask each question in the lesson study and invite your study interest to read the text that provides the answer. Then ask the question again, inviting the interest to answer from what was just read. If necessary, help guide to the answer in the text, but try to avoid actually giving the answer. Ask, “What does the text say?” You want your study interest to get the answer from the Bible rather than from you.
8. Keep the study moving. You will not be able to spend significant time on every question in the study. You should move along at a steady pace through most of the questions, taking more time only on the key questions you circled when preparing for the study. You should aim to keep your study time to one hour.
9. Be personal. Weave a few personal experiences into your study. These will help make the truth practical, make you more relatable and genuine, and endear you to the heart of your Bible study interest.
10. Do not pretend you are an expert. You will be asked questions you cannot immediately answer, but do not be discouraged. Even a small child can ask a question an adult cannot answer. If you do not know the answer, just say, “You know, I haven’t thought of that before. Let me study into that, and I’ll share what I find at our next study.” If a question will be answered by an upcoming study, simply say, “That’s a great question, and we actually have an entire lesson coming up on that topic.”
11. Ask if the study was clear. As you summarize your study at the end, ask if it was clear. You might say, “Is it clear from our study that the dead are asleep, awaiting the resurrection at Jesus’ coming?” Or “Is it clear that the biblical form of baptism is full immersion?”
12. Ask for a decision. Most Bible study lessons conclude with a question that asks for a commitment to be made based on the topic of the study. Do not pass over this question without giving an opportunity for your study interest to respond.
13. Confirm the time of the next study. Never leave without knowing the date and time of your next study.
14. Close with prayer. As you pray, incorporate your study interest’s decision into the prayer.

### Practical Application

There is no task in which a person cannot gain proficiency by practice. As the old adage says: “Practice makes perfect.” If you are nervous about giving a Bible study, go along on a study in which someone else is leading out, so that you can observe. Then try practicing on a fellow church member. Choose a Sabbath afternoon or some evening during the week, and try out the steps given in this chapter. Do this as many times as it takes to start feeling comfortable. With earnest prayer and plenty of practice, you will so excel at giving Bible studies that it will become one of your greatest joys.

Make no mistake: “It is in the water, not on the land, that men learn to swim” (Education, p. 268). You will never know how to give a Bible study until you step out in faith and actually start doing it. Angels are waiting to bless our humble efforts. Make a decision right now that you will begin looking for a spiritual interest with whom you can study the Bible. The Lord will open the way and give you the strength and wisdom you need if you will only go forward in faith.

### Practical Ways to Cultivate Interests

- Meet once a week to go through a series of Bible lessons together.
- Give Bible lessons to an interest to study on his or her own.
- Invite someone to a weekly small group Bible study.
- Watch a series of evangelistic videos together and discuss.
- Bring someone to Sabbath school, church, or prayer meeting.
- Invite someone to an evangelistic series.
- Invite someone to your local conference camp meeting.
- Encourage your study interest to watch or listen to Adventist television or radio programming.
- Pray regularly that your Bible study interest will experience the life-changing power of Christ and His Word.