---
title: The Pastor Delayed
date: 07/06/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “I will hasten and not delay to obey your commands.” –Psalm 119:60, NIV

One pastor was assigned to conduct an evangelistic campaign in a certain town. The following day, while walking in the town, he unexpectedly met an old classmate whom he had not seen in years. Both were happy to meet after such a long time.

The friend inquired about the reason for his visit. The pastor explained that he was conducting a pre-campaign in preparation for the public campaign scheduled in three months’ time. The friend was very excited by the news and pledged to be the first person to be baptized during the upcoming campaign.

The friend’s enthusiasm convinced the pastor that his friend would have accepted an immediate invitation to give his life to Jesus. The pastor considered inviting his friend to church the next day, but he refrained from doing it, comforting himself that he would do so in three months’ time. They parted ways, hopeful to reunite in three months.

Exactly three months later, the pastor arrived, feeling optimistic by the thought that he already had one precious soul ready for baptism. It was rare to start a public campaign with someone already committed to baptism. The pastor took this as a promising sign of a bumper harvest; surely, there would be many conversions after three weeks.

On the morning of the first meeting, the district pastor and the speaker went to the meeting site. Upon arrival, the speaker noticed a tent mounted about a hundred meters away. Assuming it was for a funeral, the speaker inquired about who had died. The pastor shared the name of the deceased. It was the speaker’s friend who had promised to be baptized at that very meeting.

The speaker was very sad. He regretted that he delayed in inviting his friend to accept Jesus.

### Appeal

We, too, can delay in reaching people. Let us give now while we can reach others with the message of God. Tomorrow, some of the people we could have reached will be beyond the reach of mercy.