---
title: Reality Check
subtitle: Week 1
---

No doubt you’ve felt a range of emotions since becoming a parent: awe, inadequacy, fear, wonder…

Do you now see God, your heavenly Father, a little differently?

Perhaps it’s prompted you to want a closer walk with Him. Perhaps you’ve walked closely with God, but now that you’re a parent, you see the world with fresh eyes. Either way, let’s consider how you might take a step closer in your own walk with God over the weeks ahead. Your own abiding friendship with Jesus will truly impact your baby and the environment in your home more than anything else possibly could.

^[Reflect]({"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) _(or discuss with the person beside you, if you’re comfortable)_

+ On a scale of 1-5, how would you describe your relationship with God today?
+ How do you think God would describe it?
+ If you’ve ever felt overwhelmed about how to grow in your relationship with God, what have you done that has helped you?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

In Revelation 3:15-17 Jesus describes the spiritual condition of His people today. Because Jesus is a “Faithful and True Witness,” He says He’s going to be very honest in what He says.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Read and discuss the main messages in these verses.

+ What stands out to you?
+ What is the main message?
+ What is the solution? (See Revelation 3:18.)

Jesus describes His people in another way in Revelation 3:20, 21.

+ If you were to paint a picture of this description, what would you paint?
+ What might this look like, sound like, and feel like?

Perhaps you’ve seen pictures in children’s books of Jesus standing, patiently waiting at a door—a tall, graceful Savior, gently knocking. He doesn’t barge in and force you to talk with Him. He doesn’t impose on your time or your busy life. If you hear Him and choose to open the door, He is there to step into your life. If you’ve turned Him away in the past, know that Jesus loves you and wants to be part of your life today.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Personal Reflection:

+ Think back over your life. Can you identify any moments or events that have lulled you into a Laodicean spiritual condition? What times and people have drawn you closer to God?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

Sometime during the week ahead, **read** John 15:1-11. These words, spoken by Jesus Himself, are the antidote to our lukewarm condition. Here Jesus describes what a close relationship with God is really like.

+ What single word is repeated 10 times? What does this word mean?
+ Discuss the ideas that most stand out to you in the following quote.

> “How is the dry disconnected sapling to become one with the parent vine stock? How is it to be made a partaker of the life and nourishment of the living vine? Only by being grafted into the vine, by being brought into the closest relationship possible. Fiber by fiber, vein by vein, the twig holds fast to the life giving vine until the life of the vine becomes one with the branch, and the branch produces fruit like that of the vine” (Ellen G. White, _manuscript 67_, 1897).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Pray together. Pray for each other, and for your personal connection\
with God. Pray for your babies and their future walk with God.\
Ask God to give you a desire to walk more closely with Him this week\
and during the weeks ahead as you explore this topic together.