---
title: One-Tongue World
---

It’s a fascinating episode, one shrouded in the mysteries created by nothing but time because it unfolded deep in the past and our sole record, in Scripture, depicts it in only nine verses (Genesis 11:1-9). And yet its implications, its results, have reverberated through the millennia, to the very moment that you exist in now. The fact that you are reading these words in whatever language you are reading them—French, Spanish, Mandarin, Swahili, Hindi, Russian, whatever—is only because of what happened in this story. That’s how basic, and consequential, the event was. Just as the seed in the grapefruit originated from Eden, different languages originated from the Tower of Babel.

The account opens with this line: “Now the whole earth had one language and one speech” (Genesis 11:1). Because all we have known, and for all recorded history too, is the reality of different languages (it’s estimated that today about 7,000 different ones are spoken), the concept sounds strange, but, given that it was still relatively early in the history of the world, the idea of “one language and one speech” makes sense. “This is the book of the genealogy of Adam. In the day that God created man, He made him in the likeness of God. He created them male and female, and blessed them and called them Mankind in the day they were created” (Genesis 5:1, 2). One God, one race, one language.

Though the exact date of this account, the Tower of Babel, is unknown, the Genesis flood, the worldwide flood, had already happened. Noah died (Genesis 9:29), and his children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren multiplied and dispersed. (Genesis 10). Some dwelt in “a plain in the land of Shinar” (Genesis 11:2), the southern part of Mesopotamia, today’s south Iraq. It was here that the people said long ago, “Come, let us build ourselves a city, and a tower whose top is in the heavens; let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth” (verse 4). One could imagine, having heard about the Flood, these people seeking to protect themselves from another one, even though every rainbow painted across the sky was God’s way of reminding them that “never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood; never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth” (Genesis 9:11). Thus, the building of a high tower whose “top is in the heavens” symbolizes defiance against God and His promises.

“Let us make a name for ourselves” depicts human arrogance and hubris as well. The word “name” there (in Hebrew, shem) appeared earlier in biblical history, when, before the Flood, in the context of how evil humanity was becoming, the Bible said: “Those were the mighty men who were of old, men of renown” (Genesis 6:4). “Renown” is a translation of shem, literally “men of the name.” The next verse reads: “Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually” (verse 5). Not long before the flood, and not long after, the idea of having a “name” (shem) depicts something negative.

The Tower of Babel narrative reinforces that unfortunate truth:

“And the Lord said, ‘Indeed the people are one and they all have one language, and this is what they begin to do; now nothing that they propose to do will be withheld from them. Come, let Us go down and there confuse their language, that they may not understand one another’s speech.’ So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of all the earth, and they ceased building the city” (Genesis 11:6-8).

Though details remain unknown, they were openly defying God, which is why He came down and confused their language. Imagine the bewilderment, the chaos, the confusion: hundreds, maybe thousands, of people, suddenly speaking to each other in languages that others didn’t understand? They must have been astonished, fearful, angry, and frustrated all at once by something that they had never experienced before. It worked, too: they ceased; the city and the tower remained unfinished; and these confused people dispersed over the earth. Surely those who spoke a common tongue united with each other as they all spread out from Babel. We have here, then, the origins of different human languages.

The account ends with this verse: “Therefore its name is called Babel, because there the Lord confused the language of all the earth; and from there the Lord scattered them abroad over the face of all the earth” (verse 9). Babel, symbol of open rebellion and defiance against God, is the same word later used all through the Bible for “Babylon” (babel in Hebrew). The name “Babylon” appears hundreds of times in the Bible, from the days of the Judean monarchy, more than a half millennium before Christ, to the book of Revelation, where its first use is here: “And another angel followed, saying, ‘Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she has made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication’ ” (Revelation 14:8).

Where is that? It’s in the second angel’s message. In fact, that is the second angel’s message in entirety.

What is this message, and what does it say to us today?