---
title: Use Texts as Direct Personal Appeals
---

Here are examples of how certain texts can be used in direct personal appeals:

1. For a decision to become a Christian: “I would like to have you notice what Jesus says to you in Revelation 3:20 (read). Jesus wants to come into your heart and make your life what it ought to be—filled with the peace only He can offer. You want Him to do this, don’t you? Shall we ask Him to come into your heart now?”

**Texts for desire to accept Christ**: Isaiah 1:18; Matthew 11:28; Hebrews 7:25; Psalms 34:8; Romans 5:1; John 1:12; 2 Corinthians 5:21.

**Texts for conviction to accept Christ**: Acts 16:30,31; John 3:16; Isaiah 53:6; Matthew 16:26; John 8:24; Acts 4:12. 2. For a decision to keep the Sabbath: During your Bible study focus on bringing conviction and desire to keep the Sabbath holy.

**Texts for conviction to keep the Sabbath**: Exodus 20:8-11; James 2:10; Luke 6:46; Matthew 15:9; Mark 2:27; I John 2:3, 4.

**Texts for desire to keep the Sabbath**: Hebrews 5:9; John 15:14; Revelation 22:14; Isaiah 48:18; 58:13, 14; 56:1- 6; Ezekiel 20:12; Psalms 40:8.

When, after much prayer, you sense the conviction and desire are present you may say, “When you think how Jesus gave himself for you on the cross and that He would have died for you alone, you can’t help but love Him. I know that you love Jesus. Here in John 14:15, Jesus says to you, ‘If you love me, keep my commandments.’ Now that you see that one of His commandments is to keep the seventh day of the week, or Saturday, you are going to start keeping it because you love Him, aren’t you?”

Use these strong texts often as appropriate: John 14:15; Matthew 7:21, 15:9; Luke 6:46; I John 3:4; Romans 6:16, 10:17; Philippians 4:13, 19; Revelation 14:12, 22:14.