---
title: How to Approach Missing and Former Members
---

Gain their confidence. Let them know you would like to become their friend before you begin talking about their relationship to the Lord or the Adventist church.

Many people are suspicious of strangers. When you arrive at the door of a missing or former member, they are going to be apprehensive about you and the reason you are there. If you announce at the very outset the purpose of your mission in so many words, they may reject it without ever understanding the great blessings you have to share with them. In order to get a fair hearing (so the fears they have about us and our mission may be disarmed) we need to be very wise in our approach.

Christ moved in a judicious way to win people’s friendship. They were willing to listen to Him because they knew He was interested in them and desired to help them. “Christ’s method alone will give true success in reaching the people. The Savior mingled with men as one who desired their good. He showed His sympathy for them, ministered to their needs, and won their confidence. Then He bade them, ‘Follow Me.’ ” <sup>8</sup>

Notice the steps Jesus took:

1. “He mingled.” He moved around, mixing with them, with one purpose. He wanted to do good to them, and wanted the best for them.
2. “He showed His sympathy for them.”
3. “He ministered to their needs.”
4. He “won their confidence.” When their friendship and confidence were won, then
5. He gave them the invitation to follow Him.

We must use Christ’s example in coming close to those we seek to help. If you don’t want to get involved in caring for others, then you cannot reach out to missing members as a worker with Christ because to reach people you will have to come close to them.<sup>9</sup> “Your success will not depend so much upon your knowledge and accomplishments, as upon your ability to find your way to the heart. By being social and coming close to the people, you may turn the current of their thoughts more readily than by the most able discourse.” <sup>10</sup>

Proper visitation is a major key in reaching missing members. Many former members cite the lack of a visitation program by the church as one of the reasons they left. “By visiting the people, talking, praying, sympathizing with them, you will win hearts. This is the highest missionary work that you can do. To do it, you will need resolute, persevering faith, unwearying patience, and a deep love for souls.”<sup>11</sup> Your congregation needs a strong visitation program.

Here are guidelines for visiting missing and former members, in brief: (This will be followed by an in-depth discussion.)

1. Go two by two.
2. Pray.
3. Utilize any information you have about them.
4. Remember the things you are not to do, such as argue, defend yourself or the church, or preach at them.
5. The first visit should be short. Use warmth, tact, gentleness, and no pressure.
6. Based on what they have said and the leading of the Spirit, decide if it is the right time to invite them back to church.
7. If they express interest in returning, do everything you can do to help them.
8. If you sense they are not ready to be invited to return, try to arrange more visits.

### Guidelines for visiting missing and former members, in detail with variables

**1. Go two by two if possible.**

Use the trainer-trainee approach. If your trainee has no or little experience, it is usually wise to encourage him or her to let you do all the talking so you can effectively proceed step by step without extraneous input that is not appropriate and would distract from your chain of thought.

**2. Pray:**

Spend much time in prayer and have the church prayer ministries groups pray for you and the people you plan to visit.

- Claim the infilling of the Holy Spirit, His wisdom, and guidance.
- Claim Christ’s love for the former members. “House-to- house work will be done by men and women who will realize that they can labor for the Lord because He has put His Spirit upon them. As they go forth in humble faith, Christ will impart to them grace that they will impart to others. The Lord will give them the same love for perishing souls that He gave to the disciples of old.”<sup>12</sup>
- Pray before the visit and keep your heart lifted to God during the visit.

**3. Study any information you have about the people:**

Their age, when they joined, why they dropped from membership, present interests, etc. Memorize their names.

**4. Remember the things NOT to do when visiting:**

- Do not argue. You are a witness.
- Do not defend yourselves, the church, or anyone else. You are not the defense attorney. Defending will only ally yourselves with the hurt they have experienced.
- Do not preach by telling them they should look to Jesus and not to other people.

**5. The first visit:**

- It should usually be short. Don’t wear out your welcome.
- Memorize the names and use them during the visit.
- At the door, approach them with warmth, tact, and gentleness. Don’t use pressure. Be relaxed.
- Identify yourselves as members of your specific Adventist church.
- You might say, “Good afternoon! Is this where John Smith lives? Are you John Smith? (Don’t explain to another person). Good to find you home today. We are from the [_]() Adventist church. We don’t plan to stay long, but we would like to visit with you briefly. May we step in for a few minutes? Thank you very much.”

(At the door there is a possibility you will be met with resistance. If this happens, you may say something like this, “I’m really sorry for whatever anyone may have done or said to hurt you or let you down. We just wanted you to know that we still care. Would you be willing to briefly share your experience with us?” In this way you are not excusing nor defending what anyone may have done or not done. You are just expressing your sorrow over the hurt they feel and offering to listen.)

- Once they invite you inside, demonstrate love, acceptance, and genuine concern.
- Begin your conversation with topics of general interest. If you are not acquainted you may wish to use the “Family, Occupation, Religion, and Testimony” step-by-step approach. (FORT in English). Many people have found this simple outline to be a help in breaking the ice, getting acquainted, and winning friendships.

_Family_. The first thing you can easily talk to people about is themselves and their families. When you do this they will know you are interested in them and their interests. If you listen carefully you will learn about the various influences that have worked to mold them. Ask them where they were born, where they have lived, how many children they have, and what they are doing. This will relax them and divert the mind from the fear of you and your mission. You will better understand each person as you hear about their lives. If you show you are listening, they will begin to feel you are really interested in them. In doing this you may ask about various pictures or art work displayed on the walls or elsewhere and express appreciation for these and their comments.

_Occupation_. Ask, “Do you work close to home? What is your occupation?” Getting them to talk about their occupations and what they do for recreation will help them to warm up and open up to you. As they share with you their interests you will become their friends. You will discover now that they will share other things with you that they would not have thought of telling you a few minutes before. You will learn a great deal by just listening to what they tell you and what they do not say.

_Religion_. We need to know their religious background to help them in their spiritual growth. You may start by saying, “Tell us something about your religious background.” This approach lets them start wherever they are most comfort- able and it will give you the opportunity to ask other short questions that will give you a religious profile of the indi- viduals. This is very valuable information as you will find out about their church membership, church attendance, whether they study the Bible, etc. This will help you adapt your approach to fit their spiritual needs.

If the following information was not volunteered under “family” or “religion” you may ask some of these questions, as appropriate: (Don’t ask too many.) “I understand you used to attend the Seventh-day Adventist Church regularly. Is that correct? How long ago was that? How did you happen to join the church? Were you raised in the church? Were both of your parents members? Did you attend church school?” If appropriate, “Did you marry a classmate?”

To help them remember with fondness the past, ask casually, as appropriate, “Who baptized you? Were you happy? Did you hold any church office? What did you enjoy the most? How long has it been since you’ve attended church?”

By this time, listening carefully, you will probably have discovered what has happened and why they are out of the church at the present time. If you haven’t discovered that, here are two options:

First, you may ask a question that will allow them to begin to share whatever they feel without giving them any suggestions as to what they should say. This would usually be the best. The question could be: “Would you mind sharing what caused you to become inactive?”

The other option may be used with a more hesitant person. It may not reveal their true feelings, as they may latch onto what you suggest. You may say, “I guess there are many different reasons people leave. Some may experience disappointment in their own lives, others are hurt by church members or a pastor, and still others feel the church doesn’t meet their needs. What would you say weighed most heavily in your own decision? I am really interested in knowing.”

Listen carefully. Ask questions. Don’t act shocked at anything they say. Express appreciation for their honesty. Do not pass judgment on either the individuals or the church. Instead of condemning or agreeing with the charges or excuses offered, listen to what they are saying and be sympathetic. You must be neutral because you do not know if what is said is fact or fantasy. You may wish to use two phrases that many have found helpful in response to criticism or bitterness. Say, “I’m sorry to hear that,” or “That’s too bad.” This way you are not judging or defending the people they are criticizing. This will help to give you a friendly relationship with the offended without them being able to say you believe the same thing they do.

In most cases, those out of the church and still believing the Adventist message will find excuses for their actions. They may not tell you on the first visit what the real reason is for leaving the church. If they are bitter or feel that the church or someone in the church has offended them, it will usually help if you apologize in behalf of the church or its members.

After they have thoroughly unburdened their hearts you might say, “Brother (Sister), I’m so sorry to hear what has happened to you. If I had been treated like you have told us you were, I would probably feel as badly as you do. As a member of the Seventh- day Adventist Church, I want to apologize to you for anything that I or any other member has done that has discouraged you or caused you to feel as you do. Please forgive us. From the bottom of my heart I ask you to forgive us. Will you do that? One thing we are certain about is that God loves you.”

Listening and not making defensive statements will lance the boil and remove much of the bitterness.

_Testimony_. You have the opportunity to build a bridge by which you can now share with them a message of good news— love, acceptance, and forgiveness. You will not want to preach or exhort, but you can witness to your own relationship with Jesus and what He means to you. You may want to use texts such as Micah 7:18, 19; Hebrews 8:12; and I John 1:9 to describe the incredible mercy, marvelous forgiveness, and the power of Jesus to change your life. Try to fit your testimony to some felt need they have expressed. Show them by sharing your own experience in Christ how He has been the answer to a similar problem that you had in your life. Tell, in humility and not boastfully, how God helped you to solve it. This will encourage them to come close to the same Savior that has assisted you and it will help them feel a kinship to you as they identify with your problem and the solution you found in Jesus.

**6. Now we have two options.**

Usually it takes three or four visits before you go farther in pursuing a decision. Your first visit is just to form a friendship. However, sometimes at this point you may have friends who trust you and are anxious to forget the past and move forward. A few do return to church after only one friendly visit. You must decide. Don’t be fearful; but remember that each time someone says, “No” it is easier to say it the second time.

If you sense during the visit, through communication with heaven, that they are responding very positively (if they haven’t already clarified this) you can say, “May I ask you a personal question? Do you still believe the message the church teaches is the message God has for the world?” or “Do you still believe the Adventist message?” If the answer is “Yes” don’t pressure, but continue: “Have you thought recently of coming back to the church?”

**7. If they say “Yes,” rejoice with them!**

Have a prayer of gratitude. Welcome them. Do everything possible to help them become strong members again. Offer to pick them up that Sabbath and invite them to your home for lunch and Sabbath fellowship. You must involve them and get them to read, study, pray, and share (more on follow-up later).

**8. If at the end of the first visit you find they are not ready to return to church, what should you do?**

If they are amenable, offer a closing prayer and try to arrange another visit.

In order for people to make major changes they must have a deep conviction about Bible truth and God’s will for them. They must have a desire to make the changes necessary to be in harmony with the will of God. This desire only comes as the Holy Spirit brings conviction and conversion. We need to help former member(s) listen to what the Holy Spirit says. The Holy Spirit works through the Word, whether in print or by media presentations.

Therefore, at the end of the first visit leave a booklet, video, or DVD that will speak to their hearts from the Word with urgency. Say, “We enjoyed this visit so much that we want to see you again. Here is a [_]() that has really been a blessing to us. We would like to loan it to you this week and get your opinion on it. We also have another we liked that I think you would thoroughly enjoy that we could drop by next week. Are you usually at home about this time? Great! We will look forward to seeing you next week at this time. God bless you and have a wonderful week.” Pray all week for them and be sure to return as promised.

On the second visit continue to listen. Return with the promised material and ask how they enjoyed what you left before. Ask their opinion of it in general and ask specific key questions that do not offend but help to lead them closer to the Lord. If they finished reading/watching it you might like to pick it up.

You may share hopeful Bible promises such as Psalms 32:1, 8 and 40:1, 2. No doubt questions will arise during the visit. Tell them you have something that has helped you find answers and that you will be happy to bring it by next week. Loan them the material you promised the week before and arrange to see them the following week at a specific time. Have a prayer that includes God’s blessings on the home and gratitude for His Word and the comfort and guidance it gives.

On the third visit deliver the material you promised, ask their opinion on the material you left, discuss it in more depth, and ask more penetrating questions. By this time you probably have formed such a friendship that you would be able to invite them over for dinner. And by this time also it would be wonderful to think about getting them involved in a regular weekly Bible study that covers the Adventist message. This will be a review of what they may have studied years before. What once made these people Seventh-day Adventists will help revive their desire to see the Lord and be prepared for His soon return. You may say that you have thoroughly enjoyed a new series of study guides and ask if you could bring a sample next week.

Now that the friendship has developed and it is evident they are moving forward, perhaps this would be a good time to return the material you loaned them the first week. If they enjoyed it, tell them you will be happy to make it a gift they can loan to a friend, family member, work associate, or neighbor. (Loaning helps assure use.) Getting them involved in sharing is vital and it may increase your Bible study group the next week.

If you can start a weekly personal Bible study series on the fourth visit, that is excellent. Depending on their attitude, you may now want to invite them to a church social or other church event. You may offer to come to begin the Sabbath with them in their home and if you see that the conviction to return to church is there, offer to pick them up on Sabbath morning and invite them to the church service and Sabbath lunch at your home. But don’t push too hard and too fast. Continue to ask the Holy Spirit for wisdom and for the right timing.

Even though most former members say they believe Bible truth, they need a fresh review, especially if they have been away for a long time. The potential of the weekly Bible study time with them is tremendous. Here you will be able to refresh their minds of their great need of Jesus, and during the course of the series you will have the joy of uniting with them in a prayer of total surrender to Jesus as Savior and Lord. As they love Him anew and make Him the priority of their lives, you will be able to help them to establish a daily devotional life, which is vital for the stability of every member. You will also be able to assist them in sharing the joy of their relationship with Jesus with others.

You will then lead them step by step systematically through a clear and thorough understanding of the Adventist message, uniting with them in a decision at every study. Later when you invite them to a harvesting evangelistic series in the church where the message you have studied together will be reviewed again and they see the whole broad picture of God’s wonderful truth, the Holy Spirit will draw them to an even firmer decision. God can then impress them of their need for rebaptism and reuniting with His remnant people.

You will want to invite them to join your Sabbath school class as soon as they are ready, even before baptism. If your class is an active Sabbath School Action Unit, of six to eight members, that is even better. These units are accustomed to providing a warm and caring atmosphere for the missing. One of the reasons for their existence is reaching out to missing members. In their outreach planning sessions, most Sabbath School Action Units make it their first priority to reach out to missing Sabbath school members and then missing church members. As they already work to reach the missing and former members they can provide the safest place of fellowship for the returning members. We will discuss the units in relation to prevention later.

If these former members are confronted with a Sabbath work or other problem, introduce them to someone in the church who had the same challenge and who with God’s grace overcame it. Help them to form other friendships in the church as well. Six or seven good friends in the church who will treat them with kindness and gently lead them back will be a tremendous asset.

When they do attend church, reinforce their decision to attend by letting them know that others are really happy they are coming back. Personally encourage people who know them to call them and express their joy at seeing them again.

Persevere prayerfully and you will succeed. One day in heaven a former member will meet you on streets of gold and with tears will joyfully exclaim, “Thank you for your visit. Thank you for your care. Thank you for your extra effort. It is because of you that I am here.” That will be all the reward you need.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>8</sup> The Ministry of Healing, p. 143.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>9</sup> Gray, pp. 7-9.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>10</sup> Gospel Workers, p. 193.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>11</sup> Testimonies, vol. 9, p. 41.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>12</sup> This Day With God, p. 115.