---
title: Suicide is NOT Painless
date: 03/10/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> (1 Sam 31:4 NKJV) Then Saul said to his armorbearer, "Draw your sword, and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised men come and thrust me through and abuse me." But his armorbearer would not, for he was greatly afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword and fell on it.

### Observation

After the defeat before the Philistines and the death of his son Jonathan, Saul his situation as the fulfilment of the supposed seance with the late prophet Samuel. In the darkness of his soul, Saul could see no way out of his situation and asked his armor bearer to kill him. But when his armor bearer would not do it, Saul fell on his sword and took his own life.

### Application

The first time I heard the lyrics of the movie and TV show M.A.S.H. I was shocked. The music is one of the best recognized and reminds us of a comedy based loosely on the real-life army hospital during the Korean War. But the lyrics, which were written for the movie, are shocking, and a horrible lie many have come to believe:

Through early morning fog I see\
visions of the things to be\
the pains that are withheld for me\
I realize and I can see...

_Refrain:_\
that suicide is painless\
it brings on many changes\
and I can take or leave it if I please.

I try to find a way to make\
all our little joys relate\
without that ever-present hate\
but now I know that it's too late, and...

The game of life is hard to play\
I'm gonna lose it anyway\
The losing card I'll someday lay\
so this is all I have to say.

The only way to win is cheat\
And lay it down before I'm beat\
and to another give my seat\
for that's the only painless feat.

The sword of time will pierce our skins\
It doesn't hurt when it begins\
But as it works its way on in\
The pain grows stronger...watch it grin, but...

A brave man once requested me\
to answer questions that are key\
is it to be or not to be\
and I replied 'oh why ask me?'

'Cause suicide is painless\
it brings on many changes\
and I can take or leave it if I please.\
...and you can do the same thing if you please.

My brother-in-law was a deputy sheriff in his early thirties when he took his own life with his service gun. Years later, his family still suffers the consequences of his actions and every year at the anniversary of his death everyone in the family remembers with deep sorrow his actions and the void he left. While the person taking his/her life may think suicide is quick and painless, the consequences to anyone who knows them are most painful and last a lifetime.

**If you have thoughts of suicide, these options are available to you**:

- Dial: 911
- Dial: 1-800-273-TALK
- Check yourself into the emergency room.
- Tell someone who can help you find help immediately.
- Stay away from things that might hurt you.
* Most people can be treated with a combination of antidepressant medication and psychotherapy.

#

### If You Don't Have Insurance

**The following options might be used**:

- Go to the nearest hospital emergency room.
- Look in your local Yellow Pages under Mental Health and/or Suicide Prevention; then call the mental health organizations/crisis phone lines that are listed. There may be clinics or counseling centers in your area operating on a sliding or no-fee scale.
- Some pharmaceutical companies have "Free Medication Programs" for those who qualify. Visit the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill website at www.nami.org for more information.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, life is precious and the actions we take not only affect us but affect everyone around us. Loving God, help us to never consider ending our life but rather to seek the help that is available to us through many sources and from You. Help us to always treasure life, as Your gift to us, and as Your gift through us to others.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._