---
title: The Running Father
date: 08/25/2025
---

_Pat B. Mutch_

> <p></p>
> But while he was still a long way off his father saw him, and his heart went out to him. He ran to meet him, flung his arms round him, and kissed him. Luke 15:20, NEB.

Have you ever pictured God running toward you to welcome you to heaven? He is, for He is the Father in the prodigal son story.

Day after day the father had watched for his lost son. Perhaps he had asked passing travelers of news; perhaps he even knew of his disappearance from the social scene and was grieving, wondering if the boy had even survived. But faithfully he watched anyhow. One day a stumbling form appeared on the horizon. Somehow the father recognized that gait and ran to meet him.

Jesus did something here that rejects the culture of His time. People in positions of authority, especially if moral and religious righteousness was the basis of their authority, did not go out to meet and greet anyone. They held audiences in imposing surroundings. If apologies were to be made, the wrongdoer came and confessed to them. Forgiveness had to be earned. But in this wonderful cameo of God the unconditional love and welcome He has for each erring child is the reality He wants etched in our understanding.

Not only did the father run to meet his lost son, but he gave him an exuberant welcome! Ignoring the pig smell and dirt, he threw his arms around his son and kissed him. Immediately the boy began his carefully rehearsed apology and appeal. He admitted his sin and said, “I am no longer fit to be called your son” (verse 19, NEB). But strangely, the father didn’t pay any attention. He never responded at all to the confession! You see, what the son had done didn’t matter to the father’s unconditional love. All that was important was that his lost son had returned. When the helpless, hopeless addict surrenders, Jesus makes it clear that he or she is welcome.

An openmouthed servant went quickly to fetch the household’s finest robe to throw around the young man’s filthy, gaunt body. The father placed the ring of sonship on the boy’s finger and gave directions to prepare a feast. It was time for a party, “for this son of mine was dead and has come back to life; he was lost and is found” (Luke 15:24, NEB).

> <callout></callout>
> Thank You, Father, for running toward me, Your wayward child, and offering me the life of a royal child and gifts I don’t deserve.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._