---
title: For Good?
date: 03/29/2025
---

_Connie W. Nowlan_

> <p></p>
> And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Rom. 8:28.

None of us ever planned our lives exactly as they are. But real life is never packed in neat boxes with labels to be unloaded at the end of the journey like the contents of a moving van. Our second son, Terry, has a wheelchair, which we call his “purple Porsche,” so he can keep up with the rest of us.

Terry has been part of our family for 25 years. Years of love, hope, tears, joys, frustration—as well as lessons in patience and dependence that have slowed us, his family, down.

My morning prayer for “strength just for today” has become so natural, I can’t imagine beginning the day any other way. For having a person with a long-term disability in one’s family is an everyday challenge, not just once a month or for a weekend. And God’s strength has sustained us all, daily, weekly, monthly throughout those 25 years.

The word “good” and “for good” are poles apart. God’s original plan did not include families having sons or daughters with disabilities. Having such a son or daughter is not “good,” but personal reactions to circumstances can work “for good” when God’s children allow Him to mold us despite less than perfect circumstances. For God waits patiently, His arms outstretched toward His hurting children, desiring to be their comforter, their strength, and their guide.

I can understand my own inability to “work my way to heaven” better as I care for my son, doing for him things he cannot do for himself. It reminds me that I cannot be “good enough” for heaven without my Saviour’s sacrifice. This fact has transformed my self-sufficient tendencies into grateful acceptance of Jesus’ earthly sacrifice.

I look forward to the time when we move from earth to our heavenly mansion, for Terry will be leaving his purple Porsche, and we will enter heaven with our fellow Christians labeled “perfect in Christ.” Together we’ll walk the golden streets. Memories of the purple Porsche will fade as we, with all heaven’s inhabitants, praise God for Christ’s death for us that entitles us to our heavenly home.

> <callout></callout>
> What are you looking forward to leaving behind when Jesus comes and labels you “perfect in Christ”?

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._