---
title: Back to the Second and Third Variables
---

Eo=Expectations of relevant others.

Mc=Motivation to comply with expectations of others.

Usually we tend to think that a very logical presentation will produce the greatest result. But behavior is affected more by emotion than by logic.

The key to motivation is to make Jesus the most significant of the “relevant others” so that the student in response to Christ’s love longs to know His “expectations” and to “comply” with them above the desires of all others.

This is the reason it is vital to present Christ in His beauty first. Lead the student to accept Him as both Savior and Lord, as illustrated above, before presenting Christ’s desires concerning behavior. The branch can do nothing about bearing fruit without first having an intimate union with the vine (John 15). So it is futile and of no value to urge the student to obey until he/she is prepared to do so by union with the vine. On the other hand, when this union is established and nurtured there will be an abundance of power available to produce the fruit of obedience (Philippians 4:13, 19). “You should not feel it your duty to introduce arguments upon the Sabbath question as you meet the people. If persons mention the subject, tell them that this is not your burden now. But when they surrender heart and mind and will to God, they are then prepared candidly to weigh evidence in regard to these solemn, testing truths.”<sup>30</sup> This leads us to a most vital point.

#### Endnotes:

<sup>30</sup> Evangelism, p. 228.