---
title: Attitude Versus Behavior Change
---

How do people make decisions? A change in attitude does not automatically change the behavior. Large numbers believe the Sabbath is the day Jesus wants them to keep, but they still keep Sunday. When we succeed in getting people to agree that Saturday is to be kept, we have done very little about getting them to actually keep the Sabbath.

A decision is really an intention to perform a given act. The more specific the act the stronger the decision. A person’s intention to attend church next Sabbath is far more reliable as an indicator of future behavior than his/her attitude toward the “truth” about the Sabbath.

Three variables are important in determining behavior.

1. Act = Attitude toward performing a given act in a given situation.
2. Eo = Expectations of relevant others.
3. Mc = Motivation to comply with the expectations of others.

Observation guided by wisdom from the Holy Spirit can indicate to you where among the above three variables you must aim your persuasion in dealing with each specific student. Those who study the mind say that the stronger the intention (1. above), the more likely it is for action to follow, and that action almost always follows strong intentions. Therefore, logical facts and sound arguments from Scripture certainly will strengthen one’s attitude toward the act. These arguments must include blessings that the student feels are important to him/her, because his/her attitude toward the act involves also the belief about the consequences of performing the act. For example, the person reasons, “If I attend church next Sabbath what blessings will I receive? Are these really important to me?”

Few are motivated properly. We return to what should motivate as mentioned above: “The desire to honor God should be to us the most powerful of all motives.”<sup>24</sup> The Christian persuader must realize that few are to that point. Though we want to lead them to that ideal, we must begin by motivating from the values they appreciate in order to move them at all. “God’s plan is first to get at the heart.”<sup>25</sup> And we are told, “The love of Christ is the only power that can soften the heart and lead to obedience.”<sup>26</sup> However, most are not sufficiently interested in Christ. Each is emotionally preoccupied with predominately one or two of the following: Self preservation, money, romance, or recognition. Let’s look at these in more detail.

### Distinguishing characteristics of the four preoccupations:

1. **Self preservation**: Personal enjoyment; great love for food; great concern over health; love of ease and comfort; fear of death, pain, injury, or inconvenience; strong feelings for family and religion; strong love of freedom and of life; fear of imprisonment.
2. **Money**: Desire for rewards, treasures, riches, money, possessions, prizes, and bargains; deep concern over waste of time, energy, etc.; great interest in property, future security, and savings.
3. **Romance**: Desire for novelty, originality, and new experiences; concern with attraction to the opposite sex; desire to get married; love for adventure and change; curiosity.
4. **Recognition**: Desire for popularity, reassurance and appreciation; hatred for criticism; fastidious care about appearance and choice of friends; obsessive effort to be better than others; almost total preoccupation with name, pride, influence, prestige, praise, and honor; strong desire to win and excel.

#### Endnotes:

<sup>24</sup> Messages to Young People, p. 149.

<sup>25</sup> Testimonies, vol. 6, p. 400.

<sup>26</sup> Evangelism, p. 57.