---
title: Making Appeals
---

Making appeals is most important and it is biblical. “At the close of every meeting, decisions should be called for.”<sup>28</sup> “In every discourse fervent appeals should be made to the people to forsake their sins and turn to Christ.”<sup>29</sup> God made appeals: Genesis 3:9, Revelation 3:20, Revelation 22:17. God’s servants made appeals: Joshua 24:15, I Kings 18:21. Paul made appeals: Acts 18:4.

It is not enough to proclaim the goodness of the Truth; we must persuade people to make decisions. A literature evangelist would go hungry if he just proclaimed how good his books are. He must appeal for a decision to buy. This is perhaps one of the weakest areas in public evangelism and yet its whole purpose is to get decisions to follow Christ and His Truth. People often don’t know how and are afraid to make calls, but it isn’t that difficult. Here are some helpful pointers:

- a. When you should call for decisions: When people have sufficient knowledge, when major objections have been answered, when they believe this is what God wants them to do and that He is leading them to make the decision.
- b. Appeals help people to confirm their decisions. Expression deepens impression. The whole message is really an appeal to the heart. Do all you can to treat each subject as such. Your own heart must be filled with the convicting power of the Holy Spirit. When you preach, an individual’s intellect is enlightened, the heart responds, the Holy Spirit convicts, creating a specific need to make a decision. So they feel their need. The appeal is in accord with their felt need. Take advantage of it.
- c. The essential element in a call: Earnestness. The audience must perceive that you believe that God has given you the message, that you believe the call is significant and urgent, and that you are in earnest about it.

If you get close to them, and let them know that you love them, they will respond. Start with little decisions, then bigger ones are easier to get.

The call must also be clear. They must know what you are asking for, why they need to do it, and what blessings they will receive by doing it.

- d. The basic types of calls are: Prayer call, in which you have them raise their hand while praying; standing call; altar call; and card call. Some have found that a blank card or piece of paper on which they can write their decision is better than a printed one.
- e. Appeals are divided into two categories: The general appeal is an invitation to accept the truth of the evening message. The specific appeal is to reap the harvest and includes: To accept Christ, to experience victory over some bad habit, to keep the commandments, to keep the Sabbath, and to join the church.
- f. Consider that people differ in the way they perceive truth. Try to include and appeal to all of them. Some are visual. Say, “Can you see Jesus coming in the clouds?” For the people who are auditory, say, “Can you hear the trumpet sounding?” and for the feeling, kinesthetic or sensory: “Can you imagine what it is going to feel like to see Jesus coming?
- g. Try to reach people of different ages, occupations, etc., sitting in different places in the auditorium who are struggling with different doctrinal and lifestyle problems. Let each person feel that you are personally speaking to them.
- h. Example of an evangelistic appeal: “God has spoken to you tonight. You have heard His voice. He is calling you tonight. Tonight He is saying ‘Come.’ Picture the arms of Jesus. They are stretched out wide for you. He is beckoning for you to come tonight. Listen to His voice calling you now: ‘My child, I love you. Come tonight. Come with your sins. Come with your weaknesses. Come with your fears. Come with your doubts.’ Tonight, whoever you are—salesman, housewife, factory worker, business executive, student—come to Jesus. Tonight, where you are, in the front or in the back or on the side of this auditorium, come to Jesus. He will accept you tonight. He will forgive you tonight. He speaks to your heart tonight. . . .come—and come now [to the front].”<sup>30</sup>

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>28</sup> Evangelism, p. 280.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>29</sup> Ibid.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>30</sup> ShareHim Team, The Harvest Is Ready: ShareHim Boot Camp Training Manual, (Charlotte, North Carolina, 2005), Session 10: “Making Appeals,” pp. 1-3.