---
title: Dealing With Objections
---

We should welcome objections as an opportunity to help the student into the church. To do that we must distinguish between objections and excuses. An excuse is an attempt to avoid making a decision. Excuses are evidence the person is in the valley of decision. Don’t argue or try to answer excuses. Just ask, “Why?”

Jerry had studied the Sabbath question thoroughly with Jim. One day Jim said, “I don’t think it is important for a Christian to keep Sabbath.” Jerry said, “Why?” Jim responded, “Well – ah – ah – ah. I guess it is important.” Jim had no real objection; he was just trying to find an excuse because he wasn’t sufficiently motivated. After Jerry confronted Jim with the blessings and made an earnest appeal based on the love of Jesus and scripture, Jim decided.

Keep asking “Why?” or “What do you have in mind?” until you discover what the real objection is. After you discover the objection and repeat what you understand the objection is, ask if that is the only objection. When it is the last and only one, get a commitment that if the objection could be removed the person would decide immediately. Answer the objection and get the decision.

**Here is an example.**

Student: “I would find it very hard to give up my jewelry. My mother gave these to me, and I love her very much.”

Teacher: “Is that the only reason for not getting baptized next Sabbath?” (The conversation between the two continues.)

“Yes, that’s my only reason.”

“Why do you think this challenge is so big?”

“When people give you expensive things, you should appreciate them.”

(Teacher paraphrase): “You feel that your devotion to your mother is so strong that she would feel hurt if you had to surrender the jewels she so lovingly gave you? Is that right?” (Don’t avoid their problem.)

“That’s correct.”

“If you could convince yourself that this is not a real problem, you would decide immediately to be baptized this Sabbath, wouldn’t you?”

“Sure.”

Teacher (uses the FFF method): “I understand how you could feel that way. Many other young ladies have felt the same way. But they found that the One who loves them most is Jesus. When they considered how Jesus gave up all the precious riches of heaven and came down to earth and died for them, they were willing to give up their jewelry as a willing sacrifice to Jesus. This is one way they were demonstrating the very spirit of Jesus and their gratitude for His great sacrifice. They found a happiness and satisfaction in that noble simplicity of setting aside the wearing of jewelry for outward adornment and focusing on the beauty of their inner self, as Peter portrays in 1 Peter 3. I am sure you want the same thing to happen to you. Would you like to go into the water with a friend or does that not make a difference?”

The last reason is almost always the real objection and the only one you should answer. Don’t answer excuses. After you are sure the information is clear and free of objections, and there is conviction and desire, be willing to be turned down more than once during a tactful and loving interview. You may need to wait for another opportunity. Always leave the person approachable for another time by saying, “Would you like me to pray and ask God what you should do about this matter?”

### Eight difficult objections and effective brief answers (read or refer to the texts listed):

**1. “I would like to keep the Sabbath holy, but it seems to me I’d have to give up so much.”**

Answer: “You don’t give up anything when you follow Jesus. You exchange. Matthew 19:27, 29. Note that a hundredfold is 10,000 percent interest. This is the best bargain you’ll ever get in your life.”

**2. “What would happen if I lose my job?”**

Answer: Matthew 6:32, 33. “This text means that you will either get Saturdays free where you work now, or Jesus will give you a better job.” (Tell stories of people who had the same problem and solved it happily. As mentioned above, it is better to ask one who had the experience to share it).

Let God’s Word answer excuses. Here is a similar situation: At the close of a second or third study on the Sabbath, Ted says, “I just can’t see how I can find another job or quit working on Saturdays and still care for my family.” Answer: Don’t argue. Just say, “The Lord certainly has an answer. Trust in Him.” Then pray and leave.

A week later present a shorter study. After the appeal, say, “This week in my devotions I was reading Matthew (Be sure you did). Several verses struck me. Would you read Matthew 6:24-32 to us and tell me how you understand these words of Jesus?” As he reads he will probably stop and smile and ask, “Did you choose this because of me?” Answer: “Well, when I read this I thought of you and wondered if you would interpret these words the same way I did. I can see that you do. The question of being obedient to God about the Sabbath is not a question between you and me. It is between you and the Creator. And if He takes care of the birds, do you think He will be able to do the same for you also? Just trust Him. He speaks directly to you through His Word and His promises.”

**3. “I am already saved and am now enjoying the process of sanctification. I don’t see why I must keep the Sabbath.”**

Answer: “Congratulations on being sanctified. Now you lack one thing—the sign. Ezekiel 20:12. Since you are being sanctified now, what else can you do but accept God’s sign of sanctification in your life?”

**4. “I believe that if I am sincere I will be saved in any church.”**

Answer: “Sincerity is not enough. John 4:23. What else does God want you to do? Revelation 18:4. Since you are one of God’s people you can’t stay where you are when He calls you out. God’s people always respond to His call. John 10:16, 27. I know you will respond also. What else can you do?”

**5. “Why can’t I keep Sunday to honor the resurrection?”**

Answer: “Jesus has already given us something to honor the resurrection. Colossians 2:12. Matthew 15:9. You don’t want to worship Jesus in vain do you?” You may also say, but do it tactfully, “It is a pity to make such a sacred event as the resurrection an excuse for breaking one of the holy commandments that God wrote on tables of stone.”

**6. “My family is against joining the church.”**

Answer: “God expects you to set your family an example in this matter. Matthew 10:37. It’s a matter of deciding where your greatest loyalty lies. It is in the best interest of your family for you to do the right thing. Wouldn’t it be wonderful to be used by God to lead your family into practicing biblical truth? God is counting on you.”

**7. “There are too many hypocrites in the church.”**

Answer: “Where else do you expect to find hypocrites but in the church? Jesus had twelve disciples, and one was Judas. The other disciples did not forsake Jesus because of him. In fact, the more hypocrites there are, the greater the need for people like you and me to live for Jesus and show the world what a true follower is like.”

**8. “What will my friends think?”**

This is a major excuse as people are afraid of losing their respect and friendship, especially when they have no or few friends in the Adventist church.

Joe, who was contemplating making a decision said, “What will the guys say if I take this step?”

Teacher: “What guys?”

Joe: “The guys in the dorm.”

Teacher: “Let’s make a list of the guys who would object to your becoming a Christian.” The list contained six names, all heavy drinkers and poor students.

Teacher: “Would you have your life governed by God or by these six fellows who are often drunk? Whom do you wish to honor? God or these six people who don’t understand what you know from God’s Word?”

Joe saw that God’s will was far more important, especially when he could not hide behind his friends in the judgement.

### Meeting some specific objections with texts:

**1. “God is too good to let me be lost.”**

I John 3:10; I Corinthians 6:9, 10; Revelation 22:14, 15; Matthew 25:45, 46.

**2. “I can’t stand ridicule.”**

Mark 8:38; 2 Timothy 3:12; Luke 6:22, 23.

**3. “I can’t conquer my besetting sin.”**

I Corinthians 10:13; Isaiah 41:10; 2 Corinthians 12:9.

**4. “I can’t live up to your teaching.”**

John 1:12.

**5. “There is one thing (jewelry, tobacco, etc.) that I cannot give up.”**

Matthew 19:16-22, 6:24; Luke 14:33.

**6. “I will wait until I have the right kind of feeling.”**

Isaiah 48:18; I John 2:3; Faith, not feeling, pleases God. Hebrews 11:6.

**7. “No, not right now.”**

Proverbs 27:1; 2 Corinthians 6:2; Hebrews 3:13; Isaiah 55:6; Genesis 6:3.