---
title: Introducing the Study Guides and the Plan
---

#### You may use this canvass

_(Hold the guide in front of the person as though it is very precious. Point to each item on the guide with your pen.)_

Say, “Notice that the first one is entitled [_]().”

“There is an introduction and then the question that is followed by the text and page number in this Bible.” _(Hand the Bible to the interest. If you have no Bible to give, help them find the text in their Bible.)_

“The first text is on page [_](). Would you mind opening to page [_]() and we’ll see how easy it is.” _(Help the person find the page, if needed.)_ “The text is [_]().” _(See that he or she finds it and proceed.)_

“Now the question is [_]() _[read it]_. Perhaps you could share verses [_]() _[point to the text]_ with us to see if we can find the answer.” _(After he/she reads, ask the question again politely. If he/she answers, congratulate with, “Very good.” If there is any hesitation, quickly help the person find the answer.)_

_(Hand the pen to the person.)_ Say, “Would you kindly jot down the brief answer in your own words?” _(Point to the blank. If there is any hesitation, you jot it down for him/her and move right on to the next question. Do that one the same way.)_

**Experience** shows that it is very important to get Bible students started doing the guides by taking them through the first two questions. This removes the mystery of “how?” from their minds so they will find it easy to finish.

When you finish the second question, say, “Now you are on your way. The first guide covers . . .” Continue with, “And the second . . .”

“We know you will thoroughly enjoy these guides. As someone said the other day, ‘These answer the questions we need to know the answer to—the real questions of life.’”

Place the two guides in the Bible, hand it to the person, and continue: “We are happy to provide the Bible free _[if you are able]_ upon completion of the studies, so you are welcome to mark it.” _(If possible, provide study guides to every family member and others present who will study.)_

“As we said, we are also completing these Bible studies. Perhaps we can compare our answers. If you have any questions, we could discuss them. It will be very interesting.”

Say, “We will be in this area about this time next week. Would this be the best time for you?” Settle on the specific time.

Conclude with: “We look forward to seeing you next week. I know you’ll have the guides filled out and we’ll have two new ones ready for you next week at _[state the time]_.”

Close with a brief prayer of blessing on the family and their study, if appropriate.

#### Suggestions

- Start at least two studies.
- Don’t be disappointed if you lose a study or more.
- We have been chosen (John 15:16) to go to the whole world (Rev. 14:6, 7).
- God will show you how much time to spend with one person.
- He may need you someplace else.
- Jesus worked with those who needed Him.<sup>9</sup> And “He will guide . . . [you] into the homes of those who need and desire the truth.”<sup>10</sup>
- We pick “fruit” that is ripe.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>9</sup> See The Desire of Ages, p. 275.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>10</sup> Welfare Ministry, p. 101.