---
title: Think of the Amoeba
---

In light of the astonishing truth that “so great was His [Christ’s] love for us that not only did He come to live among us but He—the Creator of the 50 billion-light-year-wide observable universe (who knows how far beyond even that it goes?)—allowed Himself to be mocked, jeered, humiliated, tortured, and then crucified for us so that we can all have the promise of eternal life,” it seems rather strange that we should be called to “give glory to Him.”

Give glory to God? How could that possibly be? How can we, sinful, fallen beings on a tiny planet in a single galaxy out of 2 trillion galaxies, give glory to God? Considering how piddling we are in contrast, not only to the universe but to the God who created it; considering how sinful and fallen we are in contrast to a holy God; and considering how dependent we are upon God for salvation—the idea of us glorifying Him seems preposterous. It would be like a single-celled amoeba singing praises to us and we, actually, caring that it does.

Yet the theme of humans bringing glory to God pervades the Bible. Jesus Himself said, “Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven” (Matthew 5:16). “I give thanks to you, O Lord my God, with my whole heart, and I will glorify your name forever” (Psalm 86:12, ESV). “So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God” (1 Corinthians 10:31, ESV). “For you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body” (1 Corinthians 6:20, ESV). “Let them give glory to the Lord and declare His praise in the coastlands” (Isaiah 42:12). “There is no one like You among the gods, O Lord, nor are there any works like Yours. All nations whom You have made shall come and worship before You, O Lord, and they shall glorify Your name” (Psalm 86:8-10, NASB). “My Father is glorified by this, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be My disciples” (John 15:8, NASB).

This idea, that of fallen sinful humanity being able to glorify God and to give God glory, however initially counterintuitive (think of that amoeba), is biblical. What does it mean, especially in the context of the three angels’ messages? Why, after being told about “the everlasting gospel,” and being told to “fear God,” are we told to “give glory to Him” as well? How do we do that—and why?

One of the most exciting moments in intellectual history came in 1687 when Sir Isaac Newton published a massive work called, in English, Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy. Though the story about Newton sitting under an apple tree and an apple falling on his head and he, suddenly, discovering gravity, is silly (everyone knew about gravity), what Newton did realize, and what he published in his book, was that this gravity (whatever it was?) pervaded the universe. The same force that caused an apple to fall to the ground was the same force that kept the moon and the planets in orbit. In fact, everything in the universe attracts each other with the force of gravity. Your reading this book exerts a gravitational pull on the moon, on the sun, and on the Crab Nebula. Though, yes, the attraction is weak, and the farther away things are, the weaker it gets, yet it’s still real. In some strange way, everything in the universe is intertwined.

Something similar applies in the spiritual realm. Heaven and earth are more closely bound than we realize. What happens on earth impacts heaven, and what happens in heaven impacts earth. “For this reason I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,” wrote the apostle Paul, “from whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named” (Ephesians 3:14, 15). The whole family in heaven and earth? Though exactly what Paul meant by the “whole family in heaven and earth” is debated, he certainly, by the word “family,” gives the idea of some kind of closeness between heaven and earth.

Just a few verses before, Paul wrote that “God’s purpose in all this was to use the church to display his wisdom in its rich variety to all the unseen rulers and authorities in the heavenly places” (Ephesians 3:10, NLT). The idea in this text (and as seen in the ones above about glorifying God) is similar: that our actions here matter, and that we can, indeed, bring glory to God. We can bring glory to God before men (Matthew 5:16), and, it seems, before “unseen rulers and authorities in the heavenly places” as well. Again, the universe is more tightly linked, at least spiritually, than what appears to our immediate senses.

One of the earliest books of the Bible, the book of Job, presents a powerful example of the close link between heaven and earth, and shows that what we do here matters, even greatly, to God. Though the story begins on earth, with a man named Job, it quickly shifts to some cosmic realm (heaven, perhaps), where Satan and other angels (sometimes referred to as the “sons of God”), are meeting. God Himself points to the person of Job, saying, “Have you considered My servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, one who fears God and shuns evil?” (Job 1:8). Satan then responds, basically saying, Sure, God, no wonder he serves You. Look at how good his life is. Let Job’s life go bad and see what happens. See if he really loves You after all! (see Job 1:9-2:7). God then allows Satan to destroy Job’s property, family, and health, and yet, amid it all, Job stayed faithful to God, proving Satan wrong. God used Job to refute the charges of Satan. That is, the actions of a human being here on earth had repercussions in heaven. That’s how tightly linked heaven and earth are.

Though for thousands of years Bible students have pondered the meaning of this book, the point for now—as astonishing as it is (again, think of the amoeba)—is that God, the Creator, was in a sense “glorified” by Job’s actions. Job proved that his love for God and his trust in God’s goodness was so strong that despite all that happened, Job remained faithful. This is a powerful example of the principle behind Jesus’ words: “My Father is glorified by this, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be My disciples” (John 15:8, NASB). Also, the story of Job unfolded in the context of the great controversy between God and Satan. The battle is real, and our actions in it matter both in heaven and on earth.

In short, we as human beings, by staying faithful to God, by bearing much fruit, by “letting our lights shine,” glorify God, as we have been told to do in the first angel’s message.