---
title: Love In The Home
---

> <p></p>
> “Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her” (Eph. 5:25).

There are husbands whose marital relationships are restricted to what is read in Ephesians 5:22: “Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands as you do to the Lord.” They forget that in the study of Scriptures a verse should never be separated from its context. That is when we consider the whole passage, verses 22 to 33, where there is a harmonious vision of the principles that contribute to a happy Chris tian marriage.

There wouldn’t be any problem for women to submit to their husbands, if husbands loved their wives, “as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her.” In a Christian home, the husband’s authority is not something imposed by force, but he gains it with love, a devotion reaching to the highest sacrifice, as Christ’s love.

The problem in many homes is not the lack of love, but the lack of loving expressions, showed in kind words and gestures. A sad story of a husband who lost his wife after fifty years of marriage illustrates this point. After the funeral was over, the pastor sat down to talk with this man.

“John,” asked the pastor, “Mary was a good wife, was not she?”

“Yes,” replied John.

“You loved her, isn’t that true, John?”

“Yes, pastor. Mary was a wonderful woman. I loved her. And I almost told her so.”

Unfortunately, this story shows what happens in many homes. It is mistakenly assumed that our spouse knows how much we love them, but nothing is mentioned about it. An affectionate word, a sign of love would do much to remove the atmosphere of confusion that is in many homes. With the lack of expression, love is like a fragile plant and will grow weak. Today is the day to show our sincere affection to your spouse. Tomorrow could be too late.

Listen to this precious advice: “Make the home a Bethel, a holy, conse crated place. Keep the soil of the heart mellow by the manifestation of love and affection” (Ellen G. White, Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students, p. 114).

_—Siegfried J. Schwantes, Closer to God, p. 124_