---
title:Faith is Important
date: 05/04/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “But without faith it is impossible to please Him, for he who comes to God must believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently seek Him.” –Hebrews 11:6

One of the important ingredients of a healthy relationship is faith. A couple without faith in each other cannot have a healthy relationship. Couples who work far from each other need faith for them to stay happy.

Just as faith is important in a human relationship, it is equally important in our relationship with God.

“Without faith it is impossible to please Him” (Hebrews 11:6). One area that requires faith in our relationship with God is giving. With the cost of living skyrocketing every year, we need faith to give toGod what is due to Him.

Without faith, a person with a small income cannot take something from it to give to God. But with faith that is possible. Faith takes God at His word. Faith accepts that God will fulfill His promise. In Malachi 3:10, God says, “‘Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in My house, and try Me now in this,’ says the Lord of hosts, ‘If I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you such blessing that there will not be room enough to receive it.’”

My brothers and sisters, each time we give, we are to exercise faith in God and His ability to fulfill the promise of Malachi 3:10. When we do not give, it displeases God because we exhibit a lack of faith in Him.

### Appeal

As we participate in tithe and offerings, let us put our faith in action by giving faithfully and generously. If you are not prepared today, I invite you to exercise your faith through tithe and percentage-based offerings the next time you receive money.