---
title: Slow Down
subtitle: Week 9
---

Life is busy! Do you ever long to just slow things down a little so that you can focus more on what’s really important?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Connect**

In 60 seconds, have each person write down a list of the things that cause stress in their life. Invite each person to read their list and notice the overlap of ideas.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Discuss**

You may know the story of Jacob and Esau—two brothers in conflict. Before they meet after being apart for 20 years, Jacob travels with his family and is very worried. There’s a lot on his mind. But despite this, he does something.

_**^[Read about their story]({"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}})**_ in Genesis 32 and 33, but take special note of Genesis 33:14.

In the midst of all his stress, Jacob chooses to “travel at the pace of children.” He knows his family, and he puts their needs first.

We likely don’t have cattle, tents, a family the size of a village to move, or a death threat hovering over us, but we do have things that clamor for our attention: computers, jobs, schedules, lists, appointments . . . and worries and concerns that distract and weigh us down.

- What are the things in your life that might cause you to not “travel at the pace of children”? What are the important family things that you might neglect because of your “rapid pace”? Playing or taking a walk with your children after supper? Reading a book under a blanket tent? Working together outside on a family project?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Reflect**

- “He makes me to lie down in green pastures, He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul” (Psalm 23:2, 3).
- “We have become a nation of thoughtless rushers” (Len Holman).
- “If the devil cannot make us bad, he’ll make us busy” (Corrie ten Boom).
- “The solution to an over busy life is not more time. It’s to slow down and simplify our lives around what really matters” (John Mark Comer).

How might living a rushed life threaten your goals for spiritual parenting?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Challenge**

- What family traditions that encourage slow, quality time together can you put in place to make this a priority?
- When things get too busy again (as they often do), how might you refocus?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Commit**

- How can you slow down the pace of your home routines so that some quality time can be enjoyed?
- Sometimes we get locked into busyness because of financial stress. If you’ve overcommitted financially, pray that God will help you to find ways of pulling back from work so that you have enough time for your children as they grow.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"}}}
**^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl"}}})**\
Ask God to reveal to you how you might slow down,\
in order to be more intentional and\
purposeful with your time.