---
title: An Enduring Work
subtitle: Week 13
---

Although your little one is small and you might feel like some of the focus areas this quarter don’t yet apply, years of parenting lie ahead of you, and clarified thoughts and habits established now will help in the future. You may like to revisit some of these topics in the months or years ahead. Growing character is indeed a lifelong work—of God working in us and in our children.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ What part of the following quote most resonates with you?

> “Deal honestly and faithfully with your children. Work bravely and patiently. Fear no crosses, spare no time or labor, burden or suffering. The future of your children will testify the character of your work” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 170).

+ Consider the various topics we’ve explored this quarter. What has changed in your parenting or perspectives, and what are you looking forward to focusing on in the weeks ahead?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore and Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

+ Read Hebrews 12:1, 2 and Deuteronomy 6:6-9. What does this teach us about parenting for eternity?
+ Then read Revelation 22:12. How do Jesus’ words here encourage you?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Remember…

We’ve explored many wonderful principles about growing godly characters in our children. But there will be times we fail in our high calling. However discouraged we may sometimes feel, we should move forward with courage and perseverance, knowing that God is with us. As parents, shaping the character of our children is perhaps the most complex, important calling we have been entrusted with. God wants to work with us and our children when we fail, and He will give us the help we need as we press ahead.

“If you have failed in your duty to your families, confess your sins before God. Gather your children about you and acknowledge your neglect. Tell them that you desire to bring about a reformation in the home, and ask them to help you to make the home what it ought to be. Read to them the directions found in the Word of God. Pray with them; and ask God to spare their lives, and to help them to prepare for a home in His kingdom. In this way you may begin a work of reformation; and then continue to keep the way of the Lord” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, pp. 557, 558).

When popular culture tells us that our dreams or careers are most important, remember that our children are on loan from God, and “to the mother and father the right training of their children is the most important work of their life” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 556).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

Indeed, parenting is a long, constant work. At times you might feel like giving up—but in these moments, lean on your spouse, an extended family member, or a friend. Most of all, have faith that God loves your little one even more than you do. He will sustain you as you do your best to work with Him to shape the character of your child to know, love, and serve Him. “Day after day, month after month, year after year, the work is to go on, till the character of your child is formed, and the habits established in the right way” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 95).

On this earth you’ll continue to do this vital work, until one day you’ll see your children with Jesus—forever. Imagine this scene …

“With joy unutterable, parents see the crown, the robe, the harp, given to their children. The days of hope and fear are ended. The seed sown with tears and prayers may have seemed to be sown in vain, but their harvest is reaped with joy at last. Their children have been redeemed. Fathers, mothers, shall the voices of your children swell the song of gladness in that day?” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 569).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Commit

As a group, spend some time praying for each other and your little ones—that God will give you wisdom, strength, consistency, gentleness, and all you need to shape the characters of your children for eternity. You may like to commit to doing this regularly in the future.

There may be other chapters in _Child Guidance_ you would like to read, but for further reflection on this final week’s topic, read chapters 82 and 83.