---
title: Sharing Your Gift of Mercy
date: 04/17/2025
---

_Kay Kuzma_

> <p></p>
> The wisdom that comes from heaven is first of all pure; then peace-loving, considerate, submissive, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and sincere. James 3:17, NIV.

The Bible speaks of many spiritual gifts. Take, for example, those in Romans 12:6-8. Some are more noticeable, such as the gifts of prophecy, service, teaching, giving, and administration. Even those individuals with the gift of encouragement, who lift people up with their optimism and joy, tend to be seen and appreciated. But at the tail end of the list is a gentle, quiet gift that few notice and appreciate, but which I consider the greatest of all: the gift of mercy.

Kari is a dictionary definition of mercy: kindness in excess of what may be expected or demanded by fairness; kind or compassionate treatment; relief of suffering.

Jogging along a road near Andrews University, Kari came upon a little old man with his head bowed down, slowly walking back home from the cemetery where his wife lay. Kari slowed her pace and walked with him to his house. He was so grateful that someone had showed interest. She stayed in touch with him. Sometimes she would stop to admire his immaculate garden, or she would drop him little notes of encouragement.

She met Grandma Lois at a prayer meeting. Kari was with two other girls. When they broke up in pairs to pray, Kari looked around for someone to pray with and spotted a woman sitting by herself. Surprised that Kari would approach her and be so interested in her, she started crying. She had lost her husband, and things were kind of hard. They struck up a friendship. Kari would go over and visit, and Lois would write her postcards. They became family. Grandma Lois even traveled more than 600 miles to attend Kari's wedding.

Kari is a physical therapist now, but her errands of mercy continue. A little note here, an extra minute to sit and listen there, a flower, a phone call, a smile, and the life of pain and disability that many must endure doesn't seem so bad.

You may not have the gift of mercy naturally, but with God's grace you can practice it. All you have to do is look for someone who's hurting and go out of your way to show them how much you care.

> <callout></callout>
> Think of someone you know who could use a little cheering up. Why not write them a note or give them a call right now?

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._