---
title: What Did They See In Your Home?
---

> <p></p>
> “And he [the prophet] said, ‘What have they seen in your house?’ So Hezekiah answered, ‘They have seen all that is in my house; there is nothing among my treasures that I have not shown them” (Isa. 39:4, NKJV).

King Hezekiah was sick with a serious disease, but the Lord heard his prayer and restored his health. When Isaiah told the king that he would be the object of divine grace, he also gave Hezekiah a sign. He said the shadow cast by the sun on the stairway of the palace would go back ten steps. This amazing phenomenon was observed in faraway Mesopotamia. Marduk-Baladan, king of Babylon, sent an em bassy to greet Hezekiah upon his recovery. We know Marduk-Baladan had other intentions. He wanted Hezekiah as an ally to fight against Assyria.

Honored for the visit of the messengers, Hezekiah did not hesitate to show them all his treasures and his armory. Unaware that he was being proved, Hezekiah absolutely failed. The chronicler said: “God withdrew from him, in order to test him that He might know all that was in his heart” (2 Chron. 32:31, NKJV). By this time the prophet came to the king and asked the question in our opening text: “What did they see in your house?”

That same question is asked of us by angels after we have visitors in our own homes. They too ask, “What did they see in your house?” What people see in our homes can be divided into three groups: First, in some homes people mostly see material possessions. They see rich furniture, fancy curtains, and impressive silverware. Such houses are like museums, but little more. Second, there are some homes where visitors mostly notice the people who live in the house. Perhaps they notice a gentle householder; a talented or conceited housewife; children that sometimes dominate the room like little tyrants. And finally, there are homes where visitors are most impressed, not by the things or people, but the atmosphere of the house. Maybe it is filled with peace and devotion. Visitors leave such homes encouraged in their faith in God. They sensed in these homes the presence of angels.

On one occasion Greeks who were visiting Jerusalem went to one of the disciples with an urgent request: “Sir,” they said, “we would like to see Jesus” (John 12:21). Could it be that many people who visit our homes would like to “see Jesus?” Should we disappoint them?

Hezekiah lost a magnificent opportunity to testify about God and the great blessing He gave to Hezekiah. Would we make the same mistake? Let us ask ourselves the question, “What did they see in your house?”

_—Siegfried J. Schwantes, Closer to God, p. 118_