---
title: Christ Loves the Missing Members
---

Christ loves every one of them. He would have died for only one of them. He spent much time in His ministry trying to reach out and reclaim the dropouts. In Luke 15 He gave three parables which He used to teach a lesson to the religious leaders of His day. They taught that God rejoiced when a sinner or a backslider was destroyed. Christ showed by these three parables that God is waiting for the dropout to be found and reclaimed. He said that there is rejoicing in heaven when one lost sinner is found and rescued.

There are three types of missing members represented in Luke 15:

1. The lost sheep represents those who know they are lost but don’t know how to find their way back. Someone must go and search for them and bring them back.
2. The lost coin represents those who don’t realize they are lost, so they are unable to do anything about their condition.
3. The lost son represents those who know they are lost, know their way back, but are afraid they would not be forgiven and received back. Most of our missing members will fit into this category. We need to share with them a positive, reassuring message that our heavenly Father loves them dearly and is longing to forgive them and that He is eagerly waiting for them to return.

### Our responsibility and His promise of success

Before Jesus comes, many who are lost will come back to Him. It is our privilege and responsibility to rescue those who once believed in Him but who have gone astray. “When the storm of persecution really breaks upon us, the true sheep will hear the true Shepherd’s voice. Self-denying efforts will be put forth to save the lost, and many who have strayed from the fold will come back to follow the great Shepherd.” <sup>2</sup>

### Best prospects for soul winning – four reasons why

Missing and former members can be the best prospects for future leadership in our churches. Here are four reasons why we should not neglect them:

1. The judgment day: With their knowledge, they will have the most to give an account of in the judgment day.
2. They believe the message: Most of them know and believe the message of truth we have to share with the world.
3. They will not be easily discouraged: In most cases, these individuals will not be easily discouraged or need the care that a new convert without their background will need. They have been out in the cold world and they know that it does not satisfy.
4. They need little instruction: Although to make them strong in the faith they do need to review our message thoroughly, nevertheless, with very little instruction they can accept the whole message of salvation and in a short time be a powerful help in the cause of God.<sup>3</sup>

#### Endnotes

<sup>2</sup> Evangelism, p. 693.

<sup>3</sup> Don Gray, Reaching and Reclaiming Missing Members, December 4, 2002, pp. 6, 7.