---
title: Mighty Morphing Cells
date: 28/07/2025
---

Dawna Sawatzky

> <p></p>
> Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Be not wise in thine own eyes: fear the Lord, and depart from evil. It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones. Prov. 3:5-8.

On television sensational "morphing" effects look like visual magic as one image changes into another. Fantasy-based movies frequently use this computerized technique. For example, a cat's face becomes a human face, or a person transforms into a super metallic being or even into a vehicle. In movies, morphing distorts reality.

In reality, the body has a Creator-programmed mighty morphing system of its own. This fantastic feat takes place in the red marrow of bones. The bone marrow produces precursor cells. As they mature they morph into red or white blood cells. The white cells then morph into a virtual army of specialized cells trained to recognize, destroy, and remove the body's invaders. Every day this efficient system pours forth billions of cells to replace worn-out red and white blood cells.

Through morphed images, movie viewers are thrilled, chilled, and enthralled by fictitious stories and unreal superwarriors. But their exploits pale in comparison to the complex battles fought each day by the immune system and the workload carried by red blood cells transporting their gaseous loads to and from trillions of body cells.

All of God's natural health laws affect the blood-producing work of the bones. It is impossible to produce the best-quality blood with poor-quality food, lack of rest, and intemperance. Guilt, depression, and negative attitudes affect the production of the bone marrow.

David understood this when he decried his weakness and condition of the marrow of his bones because of the guilt of his iniquity. "Be merciful to me, O Lord, for I am in distress; my eyes grow weak with sorrow, my soul and my body with grief. My life is consumed by anguish and my years by groaning; my strength fails because of my affliction, and my bones grow weak" (Ps. 31:9, 10, NIV).

Ellen White put it this way: "A contented mind, a cheerful spirit, is health to the body and strength to the soul. Nothing is so fruitful a cause of disease as depression, gloominess, and sadness" (Testimonies, vol. 1, p. 702).

When you're tempted to be discouraged, remember how David ends Psalm 31: "Be strong and take heart, all you who hope in the Lord" (verse 24, NIV).

> <callout></callout>
> Holding on to this philosophy should strengthen your immune system.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._