---
title: Eternity
subtitle: Week 12
---

One day we will see Jesus—really, truly see Him. We’ll hear His voice, and we’ll confess that He is Lord. This is no fairy tale; no fable—this is true! The One we’ve read about, prayed to, spoken of with others; the One our hearts have longed for . . . we will actually see Him face-to-face. We can be certain and sure of this, for God is faithful, and His promises are true (Revelation 22:6).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ When in your life have you most longed for Jesus?
+ What about heaven do you long for most?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

+ **Read** Revelation 21:9-27. Take note of, or draw, the different features of this incredible city, the New Jerusalem.
+ What does it mean to you personally to know that Jesus is preparing a place for you and will soon return for you? How much personal certainty do you have of this event?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Imagine . . .

We’ll walk past angels who stand beside the gates of pearl, through the jasper walls and into the city, and as our feet walk on the transparent golden, pure streets, as we enter farther into the city, we will see something else: the throne of God. We will gather here at the center of the universe, and bow down low to worship Him (Revelation 5:11, 12), the King of the universe, our Creator, our Redeemer, our Judge, our Lord and Savior. We will give our worship to the very One who has heard our prayers and worked on behalf of humankind to bring peace to His creation once more.

As we kneel before Him with thousands upon ten thousands on the sea of glass that proceeds from His throne (Revelation 4:6), we’ll cast our crowns at His feet in adoration and praise. Imagine your voice, pure and unrestrained, singing to God in His very presence.

Jesus. How fully He deserves our adoration, praise, and thanks. He died so that we can be with Him throughout the days ahead of us that become forever. He is the one who brings us safely through the end-times. He is the Lamb who was slain, the sacrifice that reconciled us to God. He is the center of it all—our past, our present, and our future.

How extraordinary it will be to finally be with the One we know and love—forever. Our hearts will swell with a strong, intense love for our God— the one who loves us and prepared all of this for us. Yes, the greatest gift of all will be to finally be with Jesus, our Savior and God. Forever.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

+ Is there someone in your life who needs to hear about the hope of heaven? Commit to sharing this with them. Talk to your baby about heaven, even if they don’t yet understand your words.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Invite each person in your group to pray, each thanking God for what\
He is preparing, but most of all for the promise to finally be reunited with\
Him forever. He is so faithful. Ask Him to keep you faithful\
until you see Him.