---
title: God Is in Bible-Study Work
---

We have been directed and encouraged to:

“Carry the Word of God to every man’s door.”<sup>1</sup>

“Our work has been marked out for us by our heavenly Father. We are to take our Bibles and go forth to warn the world.”<sup>2</sup>

In vision, Ellen G. White saw it happening with marvelous results:

“Hundreds and thousands were seen visiting families and opening before them the word of God. Hearts were convicted by the power of the Holy Spirit, and a spirit of genuine conversion was manifested. On every side doors were thrown open to the proclamation of the truth. The world seemed to be lightened with the heavenly influence.”<sup>3</sup>

This promise is being fulfilled today. How exciting to be part of it!

**Success is promised** as we unite moment by moment with our mighty Creator and Redeemer in His love and passion for the lost. Jesus, who gave His life for every person and who loves each one more than “worlds,”<sup>4</sup> is the One who has chosen us and asks us to “go” and share His love.

As we, the branches, unite our lives continually with Him, the Living Vine (John 15), He promises to supply all the power (Matt. 28:18-20) and wisdom (James 1:5) we need for success.

We are promised: “He will guide them [the teachers of His Word] into the homes of those who need and desire the truth, bringing them into the situations best suited to their talents.”<sup>5</sup>

“When church members put forth earnest efforts to advance the message, they will live in the joy of the Lord and will meet with success. Triumph always follows decided effort.”<sup>6</sup>

Jesus sent His disciples out two by two.

- Every member can use support. The trainertrainee plan is excellent.
- It enables more members to “live in the joy of the Lord.”

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Testimonies, vol. 5, p. 388.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Testimonies, vol. 9, p. 150.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> Testimonies, vol. 9, p. 126.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>4</sup> See The Desire of Ages, p. 578.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>5</sup> Welfare Ministry, p. 101.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>6</sup> Testimonies, vol. 7, p, 30.