---
title: Going Together in the Same Direction
date: 06/01/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> Can two people walk together without agreeing on the direction? Amos 3:3 (NLT)

### Observation

The Commentary Critical and Explanatory on the Whole Bible shares these insights on this passage: Can God’s prophets be so unanimous in prophesying against you, if God’s Spirit were not joined with them, or if their prophecies were false? The Israelites were “at ease,” not believing that God was with the prophets in their denunciations of coming ruin to the nation (Am 6:1, 3; compare 1Ki 22:18, 24, 27; Je 43:2). This accords with Am 3:7, 8. So “I will be with thy mouth” (Ex 4:12; Je 1:8; Mt 10:20). If the prophets and God were not agreed, the former could not predict the future as they do. In Am 2:12 He had said, the Israelites forbade the prophets prophesying; therefore, in Am 3:3, 8, He asserts the agreement between the prophets and God who spake by them against Israel [Rosenmuller]. Rather, “I once walked with you” (Le 26:12) as a Father and Husband (Is 54:5; Je 3:14); but now your way and Mine are utterly diverse; there can therefore be no fellowship between us such as there was (Am 3:2); I will walk with you only to “punish you”; as a “lion” walks with his “prey” (Am 3:4), as a bird-catcher with a bird [Tarnovius]. The prophets, and all servants of God, can have no fellowship with the ungodly (Ps 119:63; 2Co 6:16, 17; Eph 5:11; Jam 4:4).

### Application

We can find so many similar statements in the Bible teaching us about the importance of being in agreement as a couple and as a family. For instance:

- Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness? And what communion has light with darkness? 2 Corinthians 6:14 (NKJV)
- If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. 25 And if a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand. Mark 3:24-25 (NKJV)

These verses underscore the importance of dating people with whom we have similarities, particularly in the most important areas of our life, such as religious beliefs and principles, values, goals, family background (including relationship with in-laws), education, finances, etc.

The idea that opposites attract is used as a way to explain that we are still individuals with differences. While it is true that we maintain our individuality when we marry, and we should, it again underscores the importance of having and sharing similarities with the person we marry. We can benefit from each other’s differences as long as the differences are not more prominent or greater in number than our similarities.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, bless us so we may benefit from our different strengths, but also bless us that we may find and marry the person with whom we have more similarities, especially when it comes to how we relate to You.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._