---
title: Patience
subtitle: Week 10
---

No parent wants to admit it, but all of us have felt irritated, exasperated, and even a little angry toward our darling babies. As we seek to grow a heart of love for our children, one of the most important characteristics we need to ask God to nurture in ourselves (and our babies) is patience.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ What is something your baby does (or doesn’t do!) that tests your patience? How do you usually respond when you feel yourself losing your sense of calm?
+ Try to imagine things from your little one’s perspective. That frustrating thing he does—waking up too often, throwing food, biting down while breastfeeding—why does he do it? How can having an understanding of your baby’s complex developmental milestones help grow a spirit of patience in you?
+ Do you find it easier to be patient with your baby or with your spouse/other family members? Why?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

+ Focusing on the goal can help us to endure the day-to-day struggles. Read Galatians 6:9. What do you hope to “reap” from parenting your child?
+ Read Isaiah 40:31, Exodus 14:14, and Galatians 5:22, 23. What solutions do these verses present for our struggle with impatience?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
The following quote contains much advice for cultivating patience in the home. Divide into pairs and read the quote; then, as a group, discuss the ideas that stand out to you.

> “When we beseech the Lord to pity us in our distress, and to guide us by His Holy Spirit, He will never turn away our prayer. It is possible even for a parent to turn away from his hungry child, but God can never reject the cry of the needy and longing heart. With what wonderful tenderness He has described His love!” (Ellen G. White, _Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, pp. 132, 133).

> “The revelation of Christ in your own character will have a transforming power upon all with whom you come in contact. Let Christ be daily made manifest in you, and He will reveal through you the creative energy of His word—a gentle, persuasive, yet mighty influence to re-create other souls in the beauty of the Lord our God” (Ellen G. White, _Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, p. 129).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

This week, when you find yourself becoming impatient (in thought or in action) with your baby (or with anyone else), pause and pray to God. Ask Him to send His Spirit to grow the fruit of patience in your life. Pair up with another parent to share with each other how your “patience challenge” has gone this week.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Ask God to give you supernatural patience so that you can\
rightly represent His heart to your baby.