---
title: Loving Concern
date: 03/02/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> (1 Sam 9:5 NKJV) When they had come to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant who was with him, "Come, let us return, lest my father cease caring about the donkeys and become worried about us."

### Observation

Saul’s father had asked him to find some donkeys that had ran away. After traveling throughout the territory for several days, Saul decided to go back home so that instead of worrying about the donkeys his father would start worrying about him. In looking for the donkeys someone suggested they consult Samuel, the prophet, and it was during this encounter that he was anointed the first king of Israel.

### Application

Whatever we may think about Saul, from this story we can learn that he was a loving son who did not want to make his father worry about him. It seems that children reach a certain age and they gain or are given a certain amount of independence, which is a normal, natural step in their process of growing into adulthood. Parents, however, never gain independence from care and concern for their children. So two worlds collide – on the one hand children wanting their independence, and on the other hand parents still being concerned about their children. And where this becomes a challenge is where the children show no concern for the worrying they cause their parents. For instance, when kids go out without telling their parents where they’re going, when they plan to come back, without calling to check with their parents, etc. At home, their parents worry about their kids’ whereabouts, if they have been in an accident, if something has happened to them, etc.

The simple act of picking up the phone to call their parents show care and concern for them. This simple act, a few words, can not only bring peace to their parents but will also reassure them of their love for them.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, may we demonstrate care and love to our parents not only in words but in caring actions toward them.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._