---
title: The Millennium and the End of Sin
---

The millennium is the thousand-year reign of Christ with His saints in heaven between the first and second resurrections. During this time the righteous are described as sitting on thrones, and “judgment” is committed to them. This judgment does not determine who will be saved or lost, for this has already been decided before Christ’s return. Rather, this is the final judgment of the wicked, when “the saints will judge the world” and “judge angels.” God’s people will then fully recognize the justice of heaven’s verdict upon evil angels and men, and in union with Christ will agree on a fair punishment for “each one according to his works.” During this time the earth will be utterly desolate, without living human inhabitants, but occupied by Satan and his angels, who will be bound to the earth with no one to deceive. Revelation 20:1-6, 12, 13; 1 Corinthians 4:5; 6:2, 3; Psalm 149:5-9; Isaiah 24:1, 19-22; Jeremiah 4:23-27.

At the close of the thousand years, Christ with His saints and the Holy City will descend from heaven to earth. The unrighteous dead will then be resurrected, and together with Satan and his angels will surround the city; but fire from God will consume them and cleanse the earth. The wicked will not burn for all eternity, as is commonly taught, but will be totally destroyed. While the degree of suffering will vary “according to their works,” all of the unrighteous will ultimately be brought to ashes. The universe will thus be freed of sin and sinners forever. Revelation 20:7-15; 21:1, 2; Luke 12:47, 48; Ezekiel 28:18, 19; Malachi 4:1-3; 2 Peter 2:4-6; Nahum 1:9.

**My Commitment**: _I believe in a thousand-year period after the second coming of Christ in which judgment is committed to the saints. I trust in a loving God who does not torture the wicked for all eternity, but brings them to ashes in the final destruction at the end of the thousand years._

- [x] Yes, I agree.
- [ ] I have questions.

`My questions`