---
title: Why Do You Work So Hard?
date: 14/08/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> It is useless for you to work so hard from early morning until late at night, anxiously working for food to eat; for God gives rest to his loved ones. Psalm 127:2 (NLT)

### Observation

This psalm is a wisdom poem authored by Solomon (his second one, the other being Ps. 72). Life without God is meaningless, which is the main theme of the book of Ecclesiastes, and all our work is futile unless God is at its center (vv. 1–2). Second part of the psalm stresses family blessings (vv. 3–5).

### Application

The Pew Research Center reported on five facts about fathers:

1. The Census Bureau estimates that last year there were about 189,000 stay-at-home dads, defined as married fathers with children younger than 15 who stayed out of the labor force for at least one year primarily to care for the family while their wife works outside the home. Those dads cared for an estimated 369,000 children.

2. Fathers have nearly tripled the amount of time they spend with their children, from 2.5 hours in 1965 to 7.3 hours per week in 2011, according to a Pew Research report that analyzed years of time-use data. Despite that increase, 46% of fathers said they spent too little time with their children, compared with 23% of mothers who said the same; half of dads said they spent the right amount of time.

3. In 2009 there were about 2.4 million custodial fathers (that is, raising their children while the mother was living elsewhere), versus 11.2 million custodial mothers, according to a Census Bureau report. About 619,000 custodial fathers were due child support; collectively, they received about $1.9 billion.

4. More than three-quarters of new fathers took one week or less off from work after the birth or adoption of their most recent child, according to a 2011 Boston College study of fathers at four large companies; 16% didn’t take any time off at all. Most new mothers at the same companies took anywhere from six to 12 weeks off. Of those who took time off, 92% of fathers said they had a positive experience being with their child during that time.

5. Forget the ties, “World’s Best Dad” T-shirts and other clothing clich&eacute;s: According to a 2012 poll from market-research firm Ipsos, most dads would prefer to either spend quality time with their families on Father’s Day (40%) or receive no gift at all (22%). Gift cards were a distant third, at 13%. [http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2013/06/11/5-facts-about-fathers/]

We admire hard work, specially in men. Remember, however, that while working hard to provide for your family is important, time with them is crucial. Working hard to meet the families needs is important; working so hard that you never see them just so they can have the biggest house, the latest gadget, and all their wants met does not mean you are a good father. Resting and enjoying quality time with your kids is not just valuable but necessary for their health and well being.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, help me to have my priorities in the right order, and help me to understand that working simply to provide more things for my family is not as important as spending time with them.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._