---
title: Mauled By Lions
date: 29/03/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “My God sent His angel and shut the lions’ mouths, so that they have not hurt me, because I was found innocent before Him; and also, O king, I have done no wrong before you.” –Daniel 6:22

A story is told of a now retired pastor who was itinerating in his district. As his wife was busy that day, he decided to take his son with him. Since he had no car or motorcycle, he put the son in a carton box, which he tied on the bicycle carrier, and off they went.

After cycling for some time, the pastor found himself amid a pride of lions. They were on either side of the road. Not knowing what to do, he got off his bicycle and began to think of what should be done. Meanwhile, the boy inside the carton box on the carrier was too terrified to say a word to his father.

The pastor quickly tore a piece of the carton box and began to scribble on it. He wrote on the carton box his name and that of his son, alerting the would-be passersby to the particulars of the people mauled by the lions. After writing his name and that of his son, he threw it on the road.

While wondering what to do, a thought came suggesting that he should continue pushing his bicycle. He began to push the bicycle while the lions’ eyes were fixed and followed him with intense interest. He continued pushing his bicycle until he reached where he was going.

When we give tithe and percentage-based offerings, we help support God’s workers who continuously endanger their lives so that others may hear about Jesus.

### Appeal

As you give today, and plan to do so in the coming weeks, give so that the mission of taking the Word of God everywhere may be finished so that we can go home.