---
title: Speak
subtitle: Week 11
---

The words we speak, and the tone in which we speak them, are powerful. 

How can we be more careful with our words so our child’s identity will always be safe in our care?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

If willing, talk about a time someone’s words really encouraged or comforted you, and a time someone’s words really wounded you. What impact did both have on you?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

Divide into pairs, and have each take one of the following verses. Discuss the verse for five minutes, return to the group, and have each pair share **two insights** from their discussion.

- Luke 6:45
- Proverbs 4:23
- Proverbs 15:1
- Proverbs 18:21
- James 3:3–6
- James 3:10–12
- James 1:19

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

Which of the following thoughts about our words would you like to influence you this week?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Share your choice with your group and explain why you chose it:
- “Our words evidence the manner of food upon which the soul feeds” (Ellen G. White Comments, _The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary_, vol. 3, p. 1160).
- “He who has knowledge spares his words, and a man of understanding is of a calm spirit” (Proverbs 17:27).
- “Above all things, parents should surround their children with an atmosphere of cheerfulness, courtesy, and love” (Ellen G. White, _Counsels to Parents_, Teachers, and Students, p. 115).
- “Words of cheer and encouragement spoken when the soul is sick and the pulse of courage is low—these are regarded by the Savior as if spoken to Himself” (Ellen G. White, _The Ministry of Healing_, p. 159).
- “Kind words do not cost much. Yet they accomplish much” (Blaise Pascal).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

Think of a range of parental commands commonly used with children within your cultural context. How might these be reworded to model the kind of courtesy and kindness that you want your child to use as they grow?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-01-bb-pth/01/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Invite God to guard your tongue and your tone\
with those we love (and indeed, with everyone!).