---
title: Discipling, Nurturing, and Reclaiming
---

_Gerson P. Santos_

### Discipleship

During the past few decades Seventh-day Adventist membership records have reported a loss of about 40 percent. Even worse, more than half of those who left were considered missing or unknown. One can rationalize that in some cases it was an accumulative loss that was reported during membership or statistical auditing, but that doesn’t acknowledge whether it was a twoor three-year loss or an ongoing loss of 10 or 20 years.

Membership loss is not unique to this denomination. In recent years North American mainline denominations have lost one third of their membership. Christian leaders attribute the current situation to faulty discipleship. The foundation problem of the church is that it embodies superficial discipleship. The Apostolic church had a simple but very effective organization, and discipleship had high standards. They did not have a clear separation between clergy and laity, because all believers constituted the people of God. In contrast with the early church, today we have an exhaustive institution, but the discipleship criteria are so low that we don’t even call it discipleship, but membership. As such, it is understood as a lifetime involvement or a paid subscriptions kind of participation despite constant renewal of allegiance.

We believe that every Christian must be a disciple following the Master. Subsequently, one should obey His command to make other disciples. A disciple should become a leader, influencing another in the disciple-making process. Jesus called us not only to be His disciples but also to make disciples. This should be obvious, because it is not possible to be a true disciple of Jesus without making disciples. This is not optional, and at the same time it should be understood, not as a duty, but as a privilege.

The Great Commission is our mission (Matthew 28:18-20). Our call is to make disciples. The disciple’s goal is to form new disciples. This is the process of discipleship, in which the spirituality is developed by a personal relationship. This course of action is more effective in groups. They can promote diversity, recognizing people’s differences. This can strengthen the group, providing “an environment in which people can learn and grow as they work and share together.”<sup>1</sup>

The disciple is an equipper whose heart has been wonderfully and meticulously shaped by God as a magnificent piece of work, a real masterpiece. “As water reflects the face, so one’s life reflects the heart” (Proverbs 27:19, NIV).

The mission of the church is to announce salvation through Jesus Christ, because “there is no other name under heaven given to mankind by which we must be saved” (Acts 4:12, NIV). The testimony of the disciples was so powerful that the people “realized that they had been with Jesus” (verse 13, NKJV). Likewise, In order to fulfill the goal of witness for Jesus, the primary function of the church is to train their members how to spend time with Jesus and share this good news of salvation with others in order to reach out to the world and call in new disciples for Jesus. “Every church should be a training school for Christian workers.”<sup>2</sup>

The lifelong task of ministry or service is the real objective of life. “Christ’s followers have been redeemed for service. Our Lord teaches that the true objective of life is ministry.”<sup>3</sup> The multifaceted process of making disciples has to be developed in a close relationship between the Master and the disciple. As with disciples of Jesus, the starting point of this process is spending time with the Master and being transformed by Him. Only after this personal experience, can we be equipped to witness for Him. In the equipping course of action the equipper becomes able to equip, the disciple becomes a disciple maker. Jesus operates in His follower, equipping him or her to become a disciple. Jesus operates through His disciples, as they become equipped disciples making more disciples. “The church is God’s appointed agency for the salvation of men. It was organized for service, and its mission is to carry the gospel to the world.”<sup>4</sup>

The task at hand is intrinsic and yet, at the same time, very intricate. The question would be “Do you have in your local church a disciple-making process to reach out, assimilate, equip, and send disciples?” If you do, the follow-up questions would be “Is it working? And how do you know it is working?”

### Nurturing

The 2015-2020 Seventh-day Adventist Church Strategic Plan—Reach the World—reflects several strategic issues related to the need of strengthening pastoral care, spiritual growth, and discipleship. Many local churches lack robust mechanisms for member care, especially for those who are at risk of leaving the church. Local churches need pastors to equip elders and members collectively to provide pastoral care for each other. Discipleship programs should be greatly strengthened, with baptism being the beginning of a life as a fruitful disciple of Jesus Christ. A baptismal certificate must be understood as a birth certificate, not as a graduation diploma. In recent years research has shown that among those who left, 40 percent said nobody contacted them; only 9 percent reported they were visited by the pastor, and 17 percent by a local elder. Some of them may have forgotten any attempt to be reached, or they were trying to blame others for their decision. However, it is crucial to reconsider the importance of pastoral care.

The pastoral role in the context of Ephesians 4 is to equip the saints for their ministry. Paul presents the pastor, not as a performer of ministry, but as a trainer of ministers.<sup>5</sup> This gives the idea of the pastor as a rancher, rather than a shepherd. The main difference between the shepherd and the rancher is “who takes care of the sheep. The shepherd must do it personally; the rancher delegates the pastoral care to others.”<sup>6</sup> There are three prominent symbols of the shepherd mode: home visitation, hospital visitation, and personal counseling. The church people should be taught not to expect to get all of that from the pastor and still appreciate his or her leadership. They should be taught that the pastor is ultimately responsible for seeing to the excellent care that they are receiving by a pastoral-care team. The members of the church should receive highquality pastoral care, but not necessarily directly from the pastor.

### Reclaiming

In Luke 15 Jesus stressed the need to care for the lost. When 1 percent of the flock is lost, the Good Shepherd searches tirelessly and relentlessly until the sheep is found (Luke 15:1-7). In the parable the shepherd goes out to search for one sheep—the very least that can be numbered. “So if there had been but one lost soul, Christ would have died for that one.”<sup>7</sup> As a church, we have a challenge—we need to improve our efforts in caring and nurturing our members into a discipleship path.

In one of his speeches, Martin Luther King, Jr., said that “if a man hasn’t discovered something he will die for, he isn’t fit to live.” Jesus Christ came to this world with a mission, “to seek and to save the lost” (Luke 19:10, NIV). He sacrificed for us by dying on the cross; we sacrifice by living a life of self-denying service for Him.

Many times I have heard church leaders saying, “We are planning to have evangelism during the summer.” Those kind of statements have troubled me. If the Christian church business and the main goal of the Great Commission is to win souls by making disciples, how can we dedicate just a part of the year to the activity that supposed to be our main pursuit? If you mean by that expression to hold evangelistic meetings for reaping, then it could be acceptable.

The New Testament church could not even imagine a Christian who was not involved in ministry. “It was impossible for New Testament believers not to be involved in meaningful ministry in harmony with their spiritual gifts. In fact, the whole context of Romans 12 is a discussion of spiritual gifts. The involvement of every member in ministry in harmony with their spiritual gifts was the norm for the first-century church, and this likewise must become the norm of God’s last-day church.”<sup>8</sup> “I have been crucified with Christ; it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me; and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself for me” (Galatians 2:20, NIV).

In this volume you have had the opportunity to review some of the most important presentations presented during the 2019 General Conference Nurture and Retention Summit. As we reflect on these topics, we hope you will be challenged to reconsider your priorities, to strength your discipleship processes, and to mobilize your church for service and mission.

**Endnotes:**

<sup>1</sup> C. William Pollard, in F. Hesselbein, M. Goldsmith, and R. Beckhard, _The Leader of the Future_ (New York: Jossey-Bass Publishers, 1996), p. 246.

<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, _Christian Service_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn.,1925), p. 59.

<sup>3</sup> Ellen G. White, _Christ’s Object Lessons_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1900, 1941), p. 326.

<sup>4</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Acts of Apostles_ (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1911), p. 9.

<sup>5</sup> Russell Burrill, _Revolution in the Church_ (Fallbrook, Calif.: Hart Research Center, 1993), p. 47.

<sup>6</sup> C. Peter Wagner, _Strategies for Church Growth_ (Ventura, Calif.: Regal Books, 1989), p. 134.

<sup>7</sup> E. G. White, _Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 187.

<sup>8</sup> Burrill, pp. 25, 26.