---
title: Parenting for Success
---

Raising children today is more challenging than ever. Shaping a child’s character is even more urgent as children are confronted daily with values that seem opposite from their parents’ values. Today children are bombarded with mixed messages through the media, internet, other adults, and their peers. These confusing messages have led children down a path that desensitizes them to many societal ills such as violence, immorality, abuse, and discrimination.

The statistics on teen homicide, bullying in schools, school shootings, suicides, and drug and alcohol abuse reflect significant changes to the nature of childhood. Thus, it is much harder for children to learn basic lessons of self-management, self-esteem, and empathy toward others. Children today are more prone to depression, anxiety, and impulsive behavior. At the same time, there are more economic pressures on parents, who are working harder and longer hours, leaving them less time to spend with their children.

In spite of these challenges, parents are still the best protection against children participating in risky behaviors such as drug and alcohol use, premarital sex, and eating disorders. Parents who daily take an active role in raising their children will eventually reap the rewards of seeing their children grow into healthy and responsible adults. While parenting is not an exact science and there are no guarantees, parents who make the most of their time with their children will be more likely to influence them and prepare them for adulthood.

There are times when parenting seems like an insignificant task, especially when one is changing diapers, wiping up spills, or arguing about curfews and dirty rooms. However, parenting is one of the most important and challenging tasks given to human beings. Consider the significance of raising a child who will not just be obedient but will grow to have a mature character and a healthy self-esteem, manage their emotions, and have healthy relationships with others. Parenting is of the utmost importance.

Of course, there is no such thing as a perfect parent. However, by God’s grace our children may grow up to be fine adults, despite having had parents who were less than perfect. On the same note, parents should not expect their children to be perfect either. In the rest of this chapter, we share some ways in which parents can lay a solid foundation to carry out the task of raising their children successfully.

We said earlier that while there are no guarantees in parenting, parents can do things to increase the probability of being successful in this important work. Since raising children to have mature characters and to be responsible adults in society is the primary goal of parenting, it is important for parents to understand what their values are and how to transmit them into their children’s character.

Let’s begin with an understanding of what values are. Values are important beliefs shared by the members of a culture or family about what is good and what is not. Values wield major influence on the behavior of an individual and serve as rules or guidelines in all situations. Some fundamental moral values are honesty, integrity, respect, and responsibility for others.

The character is how values are activated. Character is not what we say—it is who we are. It is how we live out our values. So, if you tell a child that honesty is an important value in your home but you tell her to tell the person who has just called on the phone that you are not home when you are obviously at home, then your child will internalize that honesty is not an important value. Character is observable in a person’s behavior. Remember, values are our beliefs—it is more philosophical—while character is active.

Character is made up of foundational values we mentioned earlier—honesty, respect, kindness, empathy, and responsibility. When these qualities are part of a person’s character, one can expect to witness them regularly and consistently in the person’s behavior. When these values become a part of a child’s character, you would not expect them to change as the child interacts with different people or in different situations.

Again, because no one is perfect, there will be times your child may not exhibit these traits of character. However, the more the preferred values are reinforced, the more they will become a part of your child. Hence, parents must also strive to live by these values. On that point, someone once said that your child may not do what you say; they are more likely to do what they see you do.

The term emotional intelligence has become one of the most popular phrases of the new millennium. In fact, psychologists have found that emotional intelligence, or EQ, is a better predictor of a person’s success in life than IQ. They have discovered that EQ leads to happiness in all aspects of life—work, career, and relationships. So, what is emotional intelligence, or EQ? EQ is the ability to control one’s emotions. It is being aware of your emotions and having the ability to manage these emotions even in the most stressful of situations.

Dr. John Gottman, a leading psychologist who has done extensive research in marriage and parenting, suggests that parents need to become involved with their children’s feelings. Parents must become emotion coaches. Parents should use negative and positive emotions as opportunities to teach their children important lessons about life and build a closer relationship with them. Dr. Gottman is clear that emotion coaching does not mean that parents should do away with discipline but helps parents have more successful parent-child interactions.<sup>1</sup>

Parents can become emotion coaches for their children by following these steps:

1. Become aware of your child’s emotions. All emotions are an opportunity for a closer relationship with your child and for teaching.
2. Listen sincerely to your child. Parents must learn to listen to their children and validate their feelings. Your attitude toward your children is essential in helping them become emotionally intelligent and responsible adults. Make sure that your language is not critical, judgmental, or blaming.
3. Help your children find ways to label the emotions they are feeling. Sometimes your child may yell, hit, or stomp, and this is normally interpreted as anger. However, most times these fits of anger are just expressions of what your child is really feeling. Instead of getting angry at your child and yelling and screaming, ask the child what he or she is feeling and provide feeling words such as sad, frustrated, embarrassed, shy, upset.
4. Set limits while exploring solutions to the problem at hand. Children need parents to set clear limits that are age appropriate. Children rely on this guidance in both childhood and adolescence. Children begin asking for independence from very early on; however, the parent who gives independence without limits is not doing the child a favor. Rather, this creates havoc and insecurity for the child. On the other hand, a parent who is too controlling and does not allow a child to exercise some independence hinders the child’s development. Children must be respected, acknowledged as having a point of view, and given opportunities to make choices.

Knowing about values, character, and emotional intelligence is one thing, but how do parents help children move from thinking to doing? How do we help our children turn nouns such as generosity, kindness, thoughtfulness, sensitivity, forgiveness, and compassion into action verbs? Children do not acquire emotional intelligence or good character by memorization of rules and regulations. A list of good qualities and virtues will be as quickly forgotten as they are memorized; but when children get to practice what they have learned, the concepts become a part of them. As values are internalized, being good becomes a part of your child’s identity.

To parent for success, parents must understand several truisms and apply them to their relationship with their child or children. As parents, you must first and foremost understand that respect is at the core of morality—respect for self, for others, and for the Creator of the universe. As a parent, you must respect your children and expect them to respect you in return. If you want to raise responsible children who have your values, you must treat them as human beings.

Parents, remember that actions speak louder than words. Children observe everything their parents do. They file it away and later imitate how the significant adults in their lives live, what they do, and how they treat those around them. Modeling is a very effective teacher. But remember, modeling is not about perfection. It is about letting your children see your commitment to moral ideals or Christian ideals. It is also about modeling what moral people do when they have made a mistake. It is saying you are sorry. It is about talking to your children about your struggles to live the way you believe. If you are a Christian and you believe in Christ, it is essential for you to show your children how to live like Christ did when He walked on this earth.

Parents must let their values be seen and heard. As the old saying puts it, “We must not only practice what we preach but preach what we practice.” Children need our words as well as our actions. For maximum impact, not only must they be taught the values, but they need to know the reasons and beliefs that lie behind them. Parents need to guide, instruct, listen, and advise.

Make love the foundation on which you build every aspect of your relationship with your child or children. The New Testament says, “God is love” (1 John 4:16). It is God’s love that we reflect to our children. Children need to be rooted and grounded in love, the kind of love that God bestows upon us as unconditional love. The kind of love that does not require anything in return. This kind of love helps our children develop a positive self-concept, a sense of worth, an inner strength. The love that we are speaking about is active, not passive.

In parenting, love looks like focused attention, time, support, connectedness, boundaries, and commitment. This genuine, active love bonds you to your child or children. This kind of love teaches children to love themselves and to love others. Children—or adults—who do not feel loved have much difficulty loving themselves, and in turn they have difficulty loving others. Children need to know they are being heard and that they are important enough for you to devote your full attention to what they have to say. This makes them feel loved.

There are no shortcuts in parenting, not even for busy parents. The quality of time does not make up for minimal quantity. Healthy families structure their schedules, however busy and hectic, to spend time together eating, working, and playing. The bottom line is this: Parenting takes time.

Parents must foster an I-can-do-it attitude by encouraging their children to try new things. You must learn to celebrate successes and reframe failures as simply tries that teach us what does not work. A child who receives much more praise and appreciation than criticism and blaming will grow to have a positive self-image. Supportive parents help their children to develop a sense of themselves as capable and competent persons who can stand up for what is right and who do not need the approval of the group at any price. Children who feel supported are less susceptible to negative peer pressure.

To be sure, love and limits go together. These two factors are the most significant predictors of the kind of parenting that produces children most likely to buy into their parents’ values and most likely to have the capacity to establish warm, positive relationships with others. Ultimately, children need most of all to know there is nothing they can ever say or do or be that moves them out of the circle of their parents’ love.

When parents set the foundation for positive and healthy development in their children’s lives, then children will have the best chance of becoming the persons God intends them to be. Your child or children will be able to choose right when faced with tough decisions; they will not be easily swayed by other’s opinions. Not only will they find that a strong character coupled with emotional intelligence benefits them personally, but they will also be a benefit to the family, church, and society as a whole because they have been given the essential building blocks for living a healthy life.

#### Footnotes

<sup>1</sup> John M. Gottman and Joan DeClaire, Raising an Emotionally Intelligent Child: The Heart of Parenting (New York: Fireside, 1998), 27.