---
title: The Gospel and Judgment
---

It’s no coincidence that the gospel and judgment appear together. However good the news of the gospel, it doesn’t get any better than when linked with judgment. Why? Because our only hope in judgment is the gospel, is Christ’s righteousness, which is accepted by the Father as our own the moment that we claim it by faith—and also in the judgment, when we need it the most. “There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus” (Romans 8:1). No condemnation now and certainly not in the judgment.

Is it because we are sinless? No, it’s because Jesus was, and His record is credited to us as our own. That’s why the judgment in Daniel 7 “was made in favor of the saints” (Daniel 7:22). They, like the thief on the cross, were covered by the righteousness of Christ. Or as Paul has said: “Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith apart from the deeds of the law” (Romans 3:28).

Justified apart from the law? Of course. The law, however “holy and just and good” (Romans 7:12)—a truth that becomes powerfully apparent in the third angel’s message—points out sin but cannot atone for it. The law is like a mirror: it will keep your blemishes before you, but no matter how long and often you look into it, the mirror won’t take those blemishes away. The law reveals sin; it offers no power to overcome or to forgive it. That’s why we need the gospel.

One grand expression of the law and God’s judgment came from the Old Testament sanctuary (and later the temple in Jerusalem), the center of worship for ancient Israel. This is the same temple that Jesus famously purged of those who had defiled the sacred grounds with their wanton and exploitative commerce (see Matthew 21:12, 13). It was here that the children of Israel learned about the plan of salvation, the “everlasting gospel.” Central to the sanctuary service were the sacrifices of the animals, the lambs, bulls, goats—each one a symbol, a type, a mini-prophecy of Jesus’ death on the cross, as well as His work as our high priest in the heavenly sanctuary (see below). That’s why, when first introducing Jesus, John the Baptist cried out, “Behold! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!” (John 1:29). Instead of the sinner dying for his or her sin, the lamb, a symbol of Jesus, died in the sinner’s place. Instead of us, ultimately, dying for our sins, Jesus on the cross did it for us. And this great truth had been proclaimed, in symbols and types, through the Hebrew temple.

The temple also had two apartments, and though every day the atoning blood of the animal sacrifices had been brought into the first apartment once a year (see Leviticus 16), the blood of animal sacrifices was brought into the second apartment, the inner compartment, in a ritual known as Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement. This was the day of judgment, good news for the children of Israel, because even though they had sinned, their sin was forgiven, purged and cleansed by the shed blood, and they stood righteous before God in this judgment. This yearly ritual occurred “because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions, for all their sins” (Leviticus 16:16). That is, they had sinned, and that was the day of reckoning for those sins.

However, that day was Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement, and atonement is about forgiving sinners, not condemning them, and that forgiveness comes only from the blood—not from the law. Though in the second apartment of the sanctuary in the ark of the covenant (see Numbers 10:33; Deuteronomy 10:3; 31:26) were the stone tablets, the Ten Commandments, which showed Israel their sacred obligation to keep the law, atonement came about, not because of the law, but despite it. The law, which they had violated (“because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions, for all their sins”), would have condemned them but for the blood. “He [the high priest] shall take some of the blood of the bull and sprinkle it with his finger on the mercy seat on the east side; and before the mercy seat he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times. Then he shall kill the goat of the sin offering, which is for the people, bring its blood inside the veil, do with that blood as he did with the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it on the mercy seat and before the mercy seat” (Leviticus 16:14, 15). The mercy seat is the golden lid that covered the ark of the covenant, which contained the Ten Commandments, and the sprinkled blood on that mercy seat symbolized the blood of Jesus, which atoned for their violation of the Ten Commandments.

“This shall be a statute forever for you: In the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict your souls, and do no work at all, whether a native of your own country or a stranger who dwells among you. For on that day the priest shall make atonement for you, to cleanse you, that you may be clean from all your sins before the Lord” (verse 29). This was a solemn day, the day of judgment, and the people were “to afflict their souls.” That is, it was a day of repentance, of soul searching, of realizing their shortcomings, and, while depending upon the blood to forgive their sins, they needed the blood to cleanse them from those sins as well.

From the death of the animal to the priest ministering the blood in the sanctuary, everything prefigured “the everlasting gospel” (Revelation 14:6), with Jesus, first as the sacrifice, then as the high priest. An entire book of the New Testament, the book of Hebrews, explicitly explained that the earthly sanctuary was a model, a symbol, of the heavenly sanctuary, where Jesus, having shed His blood on the cross (symbolized by the animal sacrifices), now ministers in the heavenly sanctuary as our high priest.

“Now this is the main point of the things we are saying: We have such a High Priest, who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens, a Minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle which the Lord erected, and not man” (Hebrews 8:1, 2).

And just as the earthly priest interceded for the sinners by bringing the blood into the sanctuary, Jesus as our high priest in the heavenly sanctuary intercedes for us as well. “Who is he who condemns? It is Christ who died, and furthermore is also risen, who is even at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us” (Romans 8:34). “Therefore He is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through Him, since He always lives to make intercession for them” (Hebrews 7:25). “My little children, these things I write to you, so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous” (1 John 2:1). “For Christ has not entered the holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us” (Hebrews 9:24).

Notice the theme here: Christ is in heaven, in the heavenly sanctuary, interceding for us. He is in the presence of God for us. He is an advocate for us. Which is why, now, in the time of this judgment (“for the hour of his judgment has come”), we have the assurance of salvation because of what Christ has done for us on the cross, as our sacrifice, and what He does for us now, in the heavenly sanctuary, as our high priest. Again: “Who is he who condemns? It is Christ who died, and furthermore is also risen, who is even at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us” (Romans 8:34), and because of that intercession for us, “there is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus” (verse 1)—no condemnation now and, certainly, not in judgment.

In fact, the first angel’s message about judgment occurs in the context of the Day of Atonement. Though the book of Revelation is filled with images from the earthly sanctuary (Revelation 1:20; 5:5; 8:3-8; 11:19; 15:5-8; 21:1-8), not too long before the events depicted in the three angels’ messages unfold, Revelation 11:19 declares: “Then the temple of God was opened in heaven, and the ark of His covenant was seen in His temple.” The temple is the sanctuary, and the ark of the covenant, in the second apartment, contained the Ten Commandments—and the only time the high priest entered the second apartment was on the Day of Atonement, the day of judgment.

Thus, what the first angel’s message tells us is that, yes, “the hour of His judgment has come,” which is why, though His people need to “fear God and give glory to Him,” they do so with the assurance of “eternal life” in Jesus, promised them by the “everlasting gospel”—the promise that is theirs by faith.

How else?