---
title: Before Getting Started
---

The remainder of this appendix will provide detailed outlines to help the mentor facilitate each weekly meeting. In several of these outlines there are books or other resources that the mentor can make available to the new member. These could be made available for purchase from the church, given as gifts, lent by the church, or simply made known to the new member. These resources may not be available in some localities and are not a requirement of the discipleship plan. Even so, they will greatly add to the experience and spiritual growth of both the mentor and the new member. Most important among them are the Ellen White books needed as part of the daily Bible and Spirit of Prophecy reading plan. This reading plan is vital to the discipleship experience, and church leaders should ensure that mentors and new members have access to the books needed (see appendix B, “The Daily Reading Plan”).

Before beginning the discipleship process, it may be helpful to remember that for discipleship to be most effective, it should be positive and enjoyable. The weekly outlines in the following section are tools to ensure a well-rounded discipleship experience, but they should not be implemented as inflexible checklists or completed in a cold and formal manner. At times it may be advisable to modify or replace a recommended activity because of personal circumstances or local context. Mentors and new members should be committed to the discipleship process while also being willing to adapt as needed.

The first step, which the mentor should initiate, is to schedule an orientation meeting. Ideally, this should take place within one week of the new member’s baptism. 

Let’s get started!