---
title: Pleasant Words
date: 07/06/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> Pleasant words are like a honeycomb, Sweetness to the soul and health to the bones. Proverbs 16:24

### Observation

Elsewhere the book of Proverbs presents an interesting contrast: “The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the Lord, But the words of the pure are pleasant” (Prov. 15:26). By their nature, gentle, kind words, by soothing the mind, give the body health.

### Application

The tongue can detect several different tastes - sweet, sour, salty, bitter. Some of us have a preference for one of three - sweet, salty, or sour. For instance, I prefer fruit that has a tart taste but I also enjoy some sweet foods and other salty foods. In general terms, however, most of us don’t care for things that have a bitter taste. The writer of this proverb understands that most of us, from the time we’re children, have a preference for that which is sweet and pleasant and dislike that which is bitter.

In the book, “The Voice in Speech and Song,” we find some important guidance:

“Do you dislike to have harsh words spoken to you? Remember that when you speak such words others feel the sting. Let your praiseworthy example, your peaceable words and unselfish deeds, be a savor of life unto life.

“The talent of speech was given to be used for the benefit of all. Pleasant, cheery words cost no more than unpleasant, moody words. Sharp words wound and bruise the soul. In this life everyone has difficulties with which to wrestle. Everyone meets with grievances and disappointments. Shall we not bring sunshine instead of gloom into the lives of those with whom we come in contact? Shall we not speak words that will help and bless? They will be just as much a blessing to us as to those to whom they are spoken.--Ms 93, 1901. (Ellen G. White, The Voice in Speech and Song, p. 64)

A couple in which sweet pleasant words form part of their communication will have a better relationship than one where yelling, sarcasm, criticism, or bitter words form part of their conversation. Children who hear pleasant, kind, encouraging words will grow with a more pleasant disposition than those who receive from their parents a barrage of attacks or constant criticism.

Let’s practice daily the use of sweet, kind words toward each other. They reflect our relationship with god, and they also help others to experience such a relationship with Him.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, help us to speak nothing but words that will help and bless others and which will help them feel closer to you.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._