---
title: Principles Of A Happy Home
---

> <p></p>
> “And Jesus and his disciples had also been invited to the wedding” (John 2:2).

Can you imagine the privilege of that couple to have Jesus and His disciples invited to their wedding? Did they understand the meaning of the Master’s presence? It is interesting that, like many weddings, a problem came up. It wasn’t a difficult one. They simply ran out of wine (grape juice). In my country of Brazil, that would be like running out of punch before the party was over.

A few years ago I almost postponed a wedding service where I was asked to preach. The bride and groom had a misunderstanding that really worried us all. But today they are a happily married couple. Why? They invited Jesus to their wedding. They asked Christ to be part of their household. And the Lord has supplied all their needs.

Jesus’ presence is the most important part of a successful wedding. Without Christ it is impossible to enjoy complete happiness. Christ will be the One who will lead the household and provide the necessary guidelines for parents and children on how to live on earth in prepara tion for a home in heaven.

However, there are other simple and practical factors that may posi tively influence a couples’ relationship. I call them “Special Moments.”

The first is our Moment with God. Do we take time every day for personal worship? Do we fast and pray? Do we read our Bibles? Each of us needs quiet time alone with God.

The second is our Moment for Planning. We live in a busy world, where father and mother have to work. Most of the time the wife is not at home full-time anymore, but she is side by side with her partner, providing bread for the family. Both of them have battles and difficulties at work and then come home exhausted! Children return from school, they have homework to do, books to read... Who will take the responsi bilities of the house? Would it be the wife alone? The husband expects dinner but usually doesn’t offer to help. Families need a plan on how to work together or there will be conflict and stress in the home.

The third is our Family Moments. While family worship is very important, there also needs to be time for talking and sharing. Each family member needs to hear about the little victories or disappointments in each other’s day. Such companionship builds intimacy in the family and

is essential. Marriage is often called a journey, but we are all seeking a destination—heaven! We arrive their by growing each day in Christ. Families need to learn to deal with conflict. They need to learn to say, “I’m sorry. Please forgive me. I was wrong.”

Mrs. White gives us advice on people thinking about getting married: “If men and women are in the habit of praying twice a day before they contemplate marriage, they should pray four times a day when such a step is anticipated. Marriage is something that will influence and affect your life, both in this world and in the world to come”. – Messages to Young People, p. 460.

_— Léo Ranzolin, Jesus, the Morning Dew, p. 179_