---
title: Mobilize Your Defenses
date: 04/29/2025
---

_Jan W. and Kay Kuzma_

> <p></p>
> Don't you know that you yourselves are God's temple and that God's Spirit lives in you? If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him; for God's temple is sacred, and you are that temple. 1 Cor. 3:16,17, NIV.

The invaders stealthily surround the sacred temple. Silently they take up their positions and wait. At the right opportunity they will attack. In the meantime, they continue their surveillance patrols and strengthen their offensive. They don't realize they will lose the upcoming battle because of one significant factor. The temple has an incredible defense team. It's the IS, better known as the immune system.

This highly trained team consists of cells known as lymphocytes, including T cells, killer cells, and natural killer (NK) cells. They watch for the first sign of invasion and stay ready to mobilize their forces. The paratroopers, NK cells, patrol the sacred temple daily. They know they can't stop invaders from taking up their positions, but they can throw off their attacks. The T cells prepare to identify the invaders, then give orders to the killer cells to wipe out the invaders. If they fail to destroy the invaders, the message goes to the B cells—the artillery of the army.

If you can visualize this situation, then think of yourself as that sacred temple. Around you and inside you is the battlefield. Every day enemies seek to destroy your temple. You can win each time only if your immune system with its killer cells stays vigilant. Your enemies—bacteria, viruses, cancer cells, fungi—assault your body through any possible opening, such as mouth, eyes, nose, or even your skin. Anything that weakens your energy, health, alertness, and perception gives the invaders an advantage.

You have other enemies as well. Pollutants, chemicals, and stress continually attack your body. How will you handle the next onslaught? Will you lose the battle to a flu bug? get felled by a nasty cold? let a bronchial infection knock you out of action for a week? Or will you take charge and fight?

Just as God has given us the IS (immune system) to fight off physical disease, God has given us the HS (Holy Spirit) to combat spiritual disease. You are the temple of God. Use your IS and HS defenses and protect God's property.

> <callout></callout>
> Pray for the Holy Spirit to give you power to keep your immune system strong and healthy.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._