---
title: Choosing the Lord
date: 03/07/2025
---

_L. J. Saxon_

> <p></p>
> You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength. Mark 12:30, NRSV.

As Christians we are taught to believe in God, trust Him, lean on Him, and depend on Him for all our needs. We're to be a witness to others of God's love and never-ceasing care. I've known this and believed this since I was a child.

Then misfortune struck. In spite of a healthy lifestyle, I became a victim of chronic fatigue syndrome. My energy gone, my life became a series of trials. Pain, weakness, and ever-changing symptoms filled each day. I found myself complaining bitterly to God of the injustice that I couldn't make a living for my family or witness to others in all those ways God could have blessed us with. Mental and physical anguish were my constant companions.

With great consternation I wondered where all my faith and adoration for God's constant care had gone. I questioned, What do those verses mean: "All things work together for good for those who love God" (Rom. 8:28, NRSV) and "Whenever you face trials of any kind, consider it nothing but joy" (James 1:2, NRSV)? I struggled with lost dreams and growing doubts.

One day I realized the very words I had used to witness to others now condemned me. My faith was an empty shell of words that failed the test. Even my prayers were for those things I wanted, not what God desired for me.

I've learned that God places a test before each person. With the promise of unconditional love He gives us freedom of choice to "choose this day whom you will serve" (Joshua 24:15, NRSV). We are to accept God with our faith based not on circumstances, but on His Word.

No matter what trials come to us, they will strengthen our faith in our Father when we trust Him explicitly to sustain us. Hebrews 13:8 says: "Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever" (NRSV). We are the only variable.

In our lives of constantly changing circumstances we can survive in only one way—a complete trust in our heavenly Father.

> <callout></callout>
> Grasp God's steadiness when your life gets shaken up. Emulate His steadfast character so you can always shine with His love, regardless of earthly circumstances.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._