---
title: Evangelism Is a Cycle
---

“Evangelism is not just an event or even a process. It is actually a cycle. An event has a definite beginning and ending point. A process does too.” But “a cycle is never ending. That is what God wants us to do with evangelism.”<sup>4</sup>

Usually one thinks of a harvest as the end result of evangelism. But it is not. God wants a continual harvest. In a garden in the tropics certain produce becomes ripe and can be harvested at different times throughout the entire year. In evangelism it is the same. In addition to sometimes large harvests, there can be constant small harvests as people become ripe. But more than that, Jesus wants a harvest that “remains” in the church and is immediately engaged in reaching out to harvest others.

Let’s consider “remains.”Jesus does not want anyone who accepts salvation in a meeting to drift away and be lost. He says clearly in John 15:16, “Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain” (KJV, emphasis supplied). If your evangelism is concerned only with the harvest—with numbers—as many have been, you can be sure many will not remain. Here are some actual examples:

1. In one world division in one harvesting campaign 1,030 were baptized. One year later only 54 could be found. A loss of 976. Nearby, 730 were baptized. One year later only 26 remained. A loss of 704. At another location nearby 630 were baptized. One year later, diligent searching found that only 12 remained.
2. In another world division 10,000 were baptized in one year and 8,000 were disfellowshiped the same year. A loss of 80%. Only 2,000 remained.

Now the report in the church papers of the numbers baptized was exciting, but do you really think Jesus was excited? Our concern in evangelism should be to make Jesus happy— to see that His precious people “remain.”

One very experienced international evangelist said, in a personal communiqué: “We are coming to the conclusion that in almost every place, it is impossible to take a person off the street and baptize him in two weeks and have him stay productive in the church. . . . so (we) are giving as much attention or more to what must happen _before_ the meetings by way of real preparation in order to have _reaping_, and then what should happen after the meetings so that we can have _keeping_.”

The evangelism cycle must include before, during, and after the actual meetings. Matthew 28:18-20 indicates there should be preaching, baptism, followed by teaching. We will now move to that, but before we do, we must insert some bad news and good news from the second division mentioned above where 8,000 people were disfellowshiped. New members need fellowship not disfellowship. To help meet that need the small group Sabbath School Action Unit<sup>5</sup> support system was introduced for follow-up of large baptisms. However, the simple plan was rejected in that place. That was bad news. However, in another place in the same division, the Sabbath School Action Unit outreach plan was introduced, accepted, and established. Baptisms jumped from 600 to 2000 the first year. One year later 1860 remained. The loss was only 140 out of the 2000, or 7%, compared to 80% in the first location. That is good news!

If you want to have success with evangelism, you need to follow Christ’s method: “Christ’s method alone will give true success in reaching the people. The Saviour mingled with men as one who desired their good. He showed His sympathy for them, ministered to their needs, and won their confidence. Then He bade them, ‘Follow Me.’”<sup>6</sup> Christ’s method was to be with the people, to mingle, to meet their felt holistic needs, before He engaged in proclamation.

The evangelistic cycle breaks down into five basic elements: (1) Make friends. (2) Meet their holistic felt needs. (3) Win confidence. (4) Share the Word. We often rush to sharing the Word first. (5) Preserve the harvest.

These elements of doing evangelism are illustrated in Christ’s ministry. For example, we find them in Matthew and Luke: Matthew 10:1, 5 shows that Jesus sent out His twelve disciples. Their work was to prepare the field. After the twelve He sent out the seventy. Luke 10:1 says that “The Lord appointed seventy-two others and sent them two by two ahead of him to every town and place where he was about to go.” When these workers entered a town, they were to “heal the sick who were there and tell them, ‘The kingdom of God is near you’ ” (vs. 9, NIV).

What did Jesus’ message include? It wasn’t all about the land of milk and honey. Notice His sermon in Matthew 11:24: He says, “But I tell you that it will be more tolerable for Sodom on the day of judgment than for you” (NIV). Jesus could only give such a strong message after the work of preparation had already been done by the twelve and the seventy.

Matthew 12 tells us that not only did Jesus preach, He talked about preserving the harvest.<sup>7</sup> It is really vital to help the new convert to “remain.” We do a terrible disservice by neglecting those who respond to the call. Verses 43-45 indicate that they are worse off if neglected than before we made the appeal. “By neglect the soul is destroyed . . . .There were many in Christ’s day, as there are today, over whom the control of Satan for the time seemed broken; through the grace of God they were set free from the evil spirits that had held dominion over the soul. They rejoiced in the love of God; but, like the stony-ground hearers of the parable, they did not abide in His love. They did not surrender themselves to God daily, that Christ might dwell in the heart; and when the evil spirit returned, with ‘seven other spirits more wicked than himself,’ they were wholly dominated by the power of evil.”<sup>8</sup> It is a serious matter. After the harvest meetings, we must help them to “grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ” (2 Peter 3:18, KJV). As mentors, we must help them to fill their lives with Jesus, to incorporate into their daily lifestyle the three essentials of spiritual food, breath, and exercise: Bible study, prayer and share. Yes, their growth in grace includes our helping them to reach out to their network of acquaintances.

Christ’s method and the cycle include this essential: If we are going to keep people in the church, we have to provide for them after we’ve preached to them.

Building on Christ’s method, before the “farmer” begins gospel-farming and reaping, he/she needs to understand everything that needs to be included in the farming operation. Gospel-farming and reaping operation phases include: 1. Self preparation, 2. Soil preparation, 3. Seed sowing, 4. Cultivation. 5. Harvesting, and, 6. Preserving the harvest. We will look briefly at each of these aspects and then show how this applies to the evangelism cycle in your church.

### Phase one: Personal preparation

Get revival and prayer ministry going in the church. Experience shows that where large numbers pray consistently over a long period of time for every aspect of the campaign and plead with God for individuals, God gives miraculous results. “It is a part of God’s plan to grant us, in answer to the prayer of faith, that which He would not bestow did we not thus ask.”<sup>9</sup>

When people are revived and have a genuine spiritual walk with God they will naturally want to share. Focus the church on evangelism.

### Phase two: Prepare the soil in the world

Maximize our links with the community. Find out the holistic needs in the community by doing a community assessment. An important step in this process is to become acquainted with leaders in the community where you plan to reap. Interview them and ask them what are the community’s needs and how can your church help. (See Keys to Adventist Community Services,<sup>10</sup> pages 25, 26, for more details on community assessment.) Provide services that meet the discovered needs in the community. That could be programs such as health seminars, health fairs, stress seminars, family life seminars, vacation Bible schools, concerts, and other community service programs that are based on the specific needs that are revealed to you. However, don’t only provide these services as a bait for the evangelistic meetings, but plan to have on-going, sustainable community services that meet real needs because you and your church really care about people. You will want to help them even if they don’t currently have an interest in spiritual things—because that’s what Jesus would do.

In all of these community programs do friendship evangelism. Make friends with those who attend. This will help them to not be afraid to come to the meetings. In all of these always make spiritual literature and Bible studies available. Advertise for Bible studies. When people become our friends, begin to appreciate our church, and stop by to see what else we have to offer, we can know the soil is being prepared.

Praying in people’s homes is also one way to make friends. The following experience applies to both phase two and phase three: In a meeting where over 7,500 were baptized, over half were from personal Bible studies given by members and many of these were started by the members going door to door offering to pray for people. They were given stickers to give away in the homes they visited. The stickers said, “Adventists prayed in my house today.”

The members were told to go out on Sabbath afternoon to 1,000 homes surrounding the future evangelism site, telling them that they were from the Adventist church, that they were visiting homes, finding out prayer requests, and praying in the homes. They left a sticker at each home where they prayed. Then, later, the last 40 days preceding the meetings were 40 days of fasting and prayer. One thousand people, different ones each day, prayed for the meetings, guests, and speakers, etc. The success was amazing.

### Phase three: Plant the seed—the Word—in the people’s homes

Months in advance, invite literature evangelists to work every home in the area. They will find many interests for Bible studies and the meetings.

Experienced evangelists say, “Nothing takes the place of Bible Studies.” It is at the personal Bible study where growing friendships and strong relationships with prospective members are formed. It is in that interactive scenario with questions and answers from the Word, where the members, directed by the Holy Spirit, build step by step on the students’ knowledge and needs; where they lead them gently to accept Christ as Saviour and Lord, and then step by step into what He asks them to do; where there is concern and help to make needed changes as truth is revealed; it is there that very effective preparation for the harvest is accomplished. The harvesting meetings review and reinforce the truths already studied in detail and the decisions made there will be much stronger.

Conduct a weekly on-the-job training class on giving Bible studies months in advance of the harvest. Utilize every means possible, including a church Bible school, to involve as many as possible in sowing the seed with Bible studies.

Start the studies early enough so you can finish the series just before the harvesting meetings begin. Plan a mass graduation the first night of the meetings. It is then easy to invite the graduates to return to the meetings every night and easier to obtain solid decisions.

### Phase four: Cultivating the harvest

It is sometimes difficult to bring people from Bible studies directly to an evangelistic harvesting meeting. If strong friendships are formed by providing community services or during the Bible studies, this problem is less likely. Often many will come to the meetings, but for those who are hesitant, continue to offer community services such as cooking schools, seminars at the church that are tailored to their needs, and other social events that may help them have a warm feeling towards the church and its members, and that help to eliminate their fear of attending. Assisting them with various needs in their homes is another way of cultivating for the harvest.

### Phase five: The Harvest

The harvest itself is the focus of this leaflet, and this area will be discussed in more detail below. To have a large harvest there must be a large attendance. Following the four phases above will assure that. But remember harvesting is only one component of the cycle. When you put people in the baptismal tank the work is not finished. Genuine evangelism includes, not only the event, but the preserving of the harvest.

### Phase six: Preserving the harvest

As mentioned above, it is very vital that the church focuses on helping the new converts to grow. This can happen by keeping close to them and leading them more deeply into a daily relationship with Jesus through assisting them to continue to study, pray, and share. There is an abundant potential for another harvest in the new members. The seed is in the harvest. From where do you plant a new harvest? You use the seed from the previous harvest. Which people in the church have the most non-Adventist friends? The people who were just baptized. The best way to preserve them so they will “remain” in the family is to assist them to share their new-found faith with their friends, family, work associates, and neighbors.

All six phases of the gospel-farming/ reaping evangelistic cycle are essential and should be tightly connected together for true and lasting success—producing fruit that “remains.”<sup>11</sup>

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>4</sup> Ibid., Session 3: “The Local Church and the Cycle of Evangelism,” p. 2.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>5</sup> For information on the Sabbath School Action Unit support system, Keys to Sabbath School Action Units, (Lincoln NE: AdventSource, 2008). Or go online to http://www.sabbathschoolpersonalministries.org/site/1/leaflets/ActionUnits.pdf

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>6</sup> The Ministry of Healing, p. 143.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>7</sup> ShareHim Team, The Harvest Is Ready: ShareHim Boot Camp Training Manual, (Charlotte, North Carolina, 2005), Session 3: “The Local Church and the Cycle of Evangelism,” p. 1.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>8</sup> The Desire of Ages, pp. 323, 324.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>9</sup> The Great Controversy, p. 525.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>10</sup> Keys to Adventist Community Services is part of the Personal Ministries Leaflets series, and is available from AdventSource.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>11</sup> ShareHim Team, The Harvest Is Ready: ShareHim Boot Camp Training Manual, (Charlotte, North Carolina, 2005), Session 3: “The Local Church and the Cycle of Evangelism,” pp. 1, 2.