---
title: Thinking High of Yourself
date: 19/06/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> For I say, through the grace given to me, to everyone who is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly, as God has dealt to each one a measure of faith. Romans 12:3

### Observation

There is a play on the words in the Greek text translated, “Not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think.” This play on words can be paraphrased this way: “do not to be high-minded above that which you ought to be minded, but be so minded as to be sober-minded.” To himself, every man is in a sense the most important person in the world, and it always needs much grace to see what other people are, and to keep a sense of moral proportion.

### Application

This conflict between the sexes came into humanity as a result of the sin Adam and Eve committed at the very beginning. God told them that among the results of their rebellion, there would be this struggle over supremacy of one toward the other (Gen. 3:16). In some societies, women have ruled over men ans that society has become matriarchal. . . the major decisions are made by the women of the community. In the majority of countries, society is patriarchal with the men making the major decisions for their family and society. Even among some Christians, men misuse their power to exert their control over everyone else in the home.

Paul tells husbands and wives that if we have accepted God’s grace and have been born again, none of use will look down on anybody else, particularly those closest to us. Looking down on others is another way of saying that we think high of ourselves than they are. On the contrary, says Paul, remember how God has dealt with each one of us, how he has extended his grace and mercy toward us. The very least we should do is to extend the same grave and mercy toward our loved ones. Before God, none of us are better or higher than anybody else. Paul says that, “All have sinned and have come short of the glory of God” (Rom 3:23). There is no such thing as a better sinner, or a less bad sinner. . . all have sinned! And yet, God extends His mercy and grace to ALL.

In God’s plan, He wants us to be servants of each other rather than thinking higher of ourselves . When we think higher of ourselves, we want to be served, obeyed, followed. When we exercise servant leadership, we serve others, and by natural result others follow.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, help us to not think higher of ourselves but rather help us to have the servant attitude toward other, especially those closest to us.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._