---
title: God Loves to Buy Low and Sell High
date: 31/08/2025
---

_Kay Kuzma_

> <p></p>
> You made him a little lower than the heavenly beings and crowned him with glory and honor. You made him ruler over the works of your hands; you put everything under his feet. . . . O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth! Ps. 8:5-9, NIV.

God's investment policy for people is to buy low and sell high. He loves to pick up bargains and turn them into benefits. The Lord delights in rescuing the downhearted and turning them into dynamic testimonies about what He can do for people.

His philosophy is "I want you to trust me in your times of trouble, so I can rescue you, and you can give me glory" (Ps. 50:15, TLB). When you've run out of options and can't help yourself, that's the very time Jesus wants to pick you up. And the result? You have to give all the glory to Him!

Just look at who Jesus invested in. He took fishermen and turned them into successful evangelists. He took a slave and turned him into the second most powerful man in Egypt. He took a condemned murderer and made him the powerful deliverer of the Jewish nation. He took a prostitute and lifted her to the honor of being named in the lineage of Christ.

So if you're discouraged today because you feel like a nothing and nobody seems to care, remember, Christ has purchased you, and He is right now in the process of producing someone of incredible value. He does that with all His investments!

We need to have the same people investment policy ourselves. Too often we ignore the down-and-outer and buy in with our time and attention when a person is riding the crest of success. The very time when people need rescuing, when they're sick, discouraged, and struggling, is often the time we withhold investing.

Andrew Carnegie, who amassed a fortune in business, once had 43 millionaires working for him, but they didn't start out millionaires. When asked how he did it, he replied, "You develop people the same way you mine for gold. When you mine for gold you must literally move tons of dirt to find a single ounce of gold. However, you do not look for dirt—you look for gold." His philosophy was that no one can become rich without enriching others.

> <callout></callout>
> If Jesus is willing to buy low and develop His investment into a priceless gem, shouldn't we be willing to make the same investment in our fellow humans, and then mine for gold?

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._