---
title: "New Member Discipleship: Disciple-Making Principles and the Discipleship Handbook"
markdownTitle: "New Member Discipleship: Disciple-Making Principles and the _Discipleship Handbook_"
---

_James Howard_

The mission of the church is “Go . . . and make disciples” (Matthew 28:19).<sup>1</sup> We cannot afford to make anything less. Many churches have mistakenly assumed that baptizing new converts is equivalent to bringing them safely into the fold. Yet the startling number of members who have left the church over the past 50 years tells a different story. The truth is that baptism is only one of many steps toward becoming a mature disciple of Christ. And it is this, becoming a mature disciple, that is needed to help members grow stronger and keep them faithful to Christ.

So what is needed in order to fulfill the commission to make disciples, and not mere members? This article will begin by establishing principles that are important to remember when making disciples. It will then explain how these principles can be applied in an intentional and systematic new member discipleship plan using such tools as the _Discipleship Handbook_. The first principle is that the **_process_** of discipleship is the growth cycle. Second, the **_instruments_** of discipleship are people. Third, the **_goal_** of discipleship is Christlikeness. And last, the **_power_** of discipleship is from God.

### The Process of Discipleship

When Jesus described the evangelistic mission of the church, He often used the analogy of the agricultural growth cycle to describe the growth of the kingdom of God: “A sower went out to sow” (Luke 8:5). “The fields . . . are already white for harvest” (John 4:35). “The seed is the word of God” (Luke 8:11). “The harvest truly is plentiful, but the laborers are few” (Matthew 9:37).

The farmer must **_prepare_** the soil, **_plant_** the seed, **_cultivate_** the growing plants, **_harvest_** the crop, **_preserve_** the harvest, and then repeat the cycle using the seed reaped in the previous harvest. Similarly, the gospel sower must prepare the soil of the heart with friendship and service, plant the seed of God’s Word with literature or spiritual conversations, cultivate spiritual interest with ongoing Bible studies, harvest decisions for Christ with personal and public appeals, and preserve the harvest of souls with a systematic and intentional discipleship plan for new members _(see figure)_.

{"style":{"image":{"aspectRatio":1.778}}}
![The GROW Model. Learn more at https://grow.adventist.org. The top icon represents the first step of preparing the soil of the heart. Continuing clockwise, the second icon represents planting the seed of truth, the third icon represents cultivating spiritual interest, the fourth icon represents harvesting decisions for Christ, and the fifth icon represents preserving the harvest with ongoing discipleship. The continuous circle represents the cyclical and multiplying nature of discipleship.](https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/pm/discipling-nurturing-retention/content-01-new-member-discipleship-disciple-making-principles-and-the-discipleship-handbook/image.png)

The key principle taught by Jesus in His agricultural analogy is that making disciples is a **_process_**, not an event. Far too often we describe the mission of the church in narrow terms. We consider evangelistic outreach to be isolated from nurture, and we view numerical growth as separate from spiritual growth. Yet we discover that discipleship, when properly understood, is a process that includes both! Notice the following statements by Ellen White: “When souls are converted, set them to work at once. And as they labor according to their ability, they will grow stronger.”<sup>1</sup> “The more one tries to explain the Word of God to others, with a love for souls, the plainer it becomes to himself.”<sup>2</sup> “Let ministers teach church members that in order to grow in spirituality, they must carry the burden that the Lord has laid upon them—the burden of leading souls into the truth.”<sup>3</sup> “Those who are most actively employed in doing with interested fidelity their work to win souls to Jesus Christ are the best developed in spirituality and devotion.”<sup>4</sup>

From these inspired statements we discover a beautiful synergy between evangelistic labor and personal spiritual growth. It is by laboring for souls that we grow spiritually ourselves. Outreach and nurture are two sides of the same coin. Whether we call that coin evangelism, discipleship, or soul winning, a true and comprehensive definition will include every phase of disciple-making. It will include ministering to people’s needs, introducing them to Bible truth, engaging in ongoing Bible studies, leading them to follow Christ and be baptized, and then nurturing and training them as they grow into well-rounded and active disciples of Christ.

We have only one mission. It is both the best strategy for church growth and, at the same time, the best strategy for the nurture and retention of our members. Discipleship is one continuous process that begins before baptism, continues after baptism, and leads the disciple to become more like Jesus and to carry on His mission of winning souls. The process of discipleship is the growth cycle taught by Jesus.

### The Instruments of Discipleship

When Jesus said, “Go therefore and make disciples” (Matthew 28:19), He was talking to His disciples. While it is true that books, classes, and sermons may be helpful in the discipleship process, we must always keep in view that it is **_people who make disciples_**. True discipleship requires relationships, time, and a living example. The reason Jesus was so effective at making disciples was that He understood this principle and therefore invested significant time and energy in developing the Twelve. They learned to pray by watching Jesus pray. They learned to depend upon the Scriptures when they saw how Jesus depended on the Scriptures. They learned how to sacrifice and deny themselves by how Jesus denied Himself. They learned how to minister to others’ needs and teach the gospel by watching the Master Healer and Teacher.

Paul also understood this principle. He wrote to the young minister Timothy: “And the things that you have heard from me among many witnesses, commit these to faithful men who will be able to teach others also” (2 Timothy 2:2). Christ and certain representatives of the church taught Paul, Paul taught Timothy, Timothy was to teach faithful men, and these faithful men were to teach others also. That’s four generations of discipleship in one verse!

The important takeaway from this discipleship principle is that we can’t simply hold a class or give someone a book and call this discipleship. New members learn how to be disciples by spending time with Jesus, but they also learn from the example of more experienced church members who are willing to invest time in them. For this reason both Paul and Peter emphasize the importance of being a godly example (see 1 Peter 5:2, 3; 1 Corinthians 11:1; Philippians 3:17; 1 Thessalonians 1:5-7). Ellen White concurs, stating that “one example is worth more than many precepts.”<sup>5</sup>

Since the primary instruments of discipleship are people, the quality of the new disciples we make will to a great degree be dependent upon the quality of the disciple-makers! For this reason the first step for church leaders in establishing a new member discipleship plan should be to prepare and train godly mentors.

### The Goal of Discipleship

Jesus explained the ultimate goal of discipleship when He declared, “A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone who is perfectly trained will be like his teacher” (Luke 6:40). The goal of discipleship is to be like Jesus—_**Christlikeness**_ in character and behavior. Jesus had a lot to say about what it meant to be a disciple, but in every case He was simply calling on His followers to be like Him.

A few of Jesus’ statements are sufficient in order to grasp the primary aspects of this goal of Christlikeness in His followers: “By this all will know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another” (John 13:35). “If anyone desires to come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow Me” (Matthew 16:24). “Follow Me, and I will make you become fishers of men” (Mark 1:17).

Jesus explained that those who follow Him were to become loving, self-denying, soul winners—just like Him. This is a high calling indeed. It is also a compelling reason we can’t afford to cease our labors for new converts immediately after they are baptized. Does a newly baptized member understand how to be a loving, self-denying, soul winner—a disciple who makes other disciples? We are not truly fulfilling the mission unless we are leading our new members to be not merely consumers, but producers. We must encourage and help them to become loving, obedient, active fishers of men and women.

Jesus instructed His disciples to not only baptize new believers, but to continue “teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you” (Matthew 28:20). Discipleship includes practical instruction in Christ’s way of living. This begins with His habit of communion with God in prayer, His study and dependence on Scripture, His bold witness to the truth, and His loving ministry to the needs of humanity. It also includes many other practical areas of biblical instruction, such as baptism, Sabbathkeeping, reverence, stewardship, health, modesty, marriage, and family.

It should also be noted that discipleship in the last days will reflect the unique message of the Seventh-day Adventist Church as the remnant church of Bible prophecy. This message, entrusted by God to His people and firmly established in the Bible, is the foundation of faith and practice for end-time disciples. With a wealth of guidance through the Bible and the prophetic counsel of Ellen White, our Lord Jesus Christ desires that His disciples in the last days will follow in His footsteps and reflect His image.

### The Power of Discipleship

While it is true that people are the primary instruments in making disciples, it must always be remembered that the power required for true discipleship comes from God. No matter how much we love people, build friendships, establish confidence, provide godly examples, or show sympathy, none of these has power to convert or transform the soul. We must connect people to Christ and His Word. It is through the foundational spiritual habits of prayer, Bible study, and witnessing that the Christian beholds and experiences divine power.

When surveys are taken of those who have left the church, reasons such as conflicts, hypocrisy, lack of love and care, or offensive attitudes are often cited to explain why they left. While we must take these seriously, we should also not fail to discern and address the more fundamental reasons that are rarely recognized or expressed. More often than not, the reason new members leave the church is that they failed to establish or continue in spiritual habits that would have given life and power to their spiritual walk with God. Without these spiritual habits, they become easily discouraged, distracted, tempted, or offended.

Ellen White writes of the spiritual habit of prayer: “Prayer is the breath of the soul. It is the secret of spiritual power. No other means of grace can be substituted and the health of the soul be preserved. . . . Neglect the exercise of prayer, or engage in prayer spasmodically, now and then, as seems convenient, and you lose your hold on God.”<sup>6</sup> Rarely will someone who leaves the church state that the reason they left is that they stopped praying regularly. They may not even recognize this. Nevertheless, the neglect of this habit causes many to lose their hold on God. This is the hidden but true reason we lose many members out the back door.

Another essential spiritual habit is spending regular time in the Bible. Jesus boldly declared, “Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in you. . . . The words that I speak to you are spirit, and they are life” (John 6:53-63). It is often the case that new members come to a Bible study or evangelistic meeting and are convicted and compelled by the inspiring biblical preaching and teaching. However, when the meetings are over and after they are baptized, they gradually lose their inspiration. What happened? They had been genuinely changed by the Word being taught to them in the meetings, but they never learned how to regularly feed _**themselves**_. New members must be taught that unless they consistently read the Word, they will not be able to maintain a spiritual life. The Bible is not like other books. It is not merely informational, but transformational. It is through the living and powerful Word of God that we are converted, or born again, and the same Word is needed for power to live a victorious Christian life (see Hebrews 4:12; 1 Peter 1:23; Matthew 4:4). For this reason Ellen White warns, “Satan well knows that all whom he can lead to neglect prayer and the searching of the Scriptures will be overcome by his attacks.”<sup>7</sup>

Because of the creative power in God’s Word, we should make its study foundational to any discipleship plan for new members. This plan should include five different levels of Bible study: (1) encourage the spiritual habit of personal daily Bible reading, (2) give Bible studies to share the full Adventist message for the first time, (3) give baptismal preparation studies to ensure readiness for baptism, (4) give discipleship studies after baptism to integrate new members into the life and mission of the church, and (5) review our message with more in-depth Bible studies that prepare new members to give Bible studies to others. By saturating the discipleship process in the Word of God, divine power will be imparted to the new disciples. For the five levels of Bible study listed above, the General Conference Sabbath School and Personal Ministries Department has developed resources to aid churches in their discipleship training. To encourage daily Bible reading, the _Discipleship Handbook_ contains a daily Bible and Spirit of Prophecy reading plan. The resource _Fundamentals of Faith_ is specifically designed for use in baptismal preparation studies. The main portion of the _Discipleship Handbook_, which will be discussed later in this article in greater detail, can be used for discipleship studies after baptism. And the _Bible Study Handbook_ can be used to prepare and train members to give Bible studies to others.<sup>8</sup>

Just before ascending to heaven, Jesus told His disciples, “But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be witnesses to Me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth” (Acts 1:8). When we share the gospel of Christ with others, we join God in His work and experience His power. While the power of prayer and Bible study is familiar to most Christians, the power of God experienced through witnessing is far less common. Even so, nothing solidifies new disciples in their faith like sharing God’s Word with others. When we engage in this vital work, the power of the Holy Spirit strengthens our convictions, increases our faith, grows our knowledge, and expands our love for souls.

In the great mission of making disciples, we must always remember that our job is not merely to connect with people, but to connect people to Christ: “If we can awaken an interest in men’s minds that will cause them to fix their eyes on Christ, we may step aside, and ask them only to continue to fix their eyes upon the Lamb of God.”<sup>9</sup> Jesus is the Master, and we are all His disciples. All power resides in Christ and His Word. In order for us to make disciples and retain them in the church, a discipleship plan must focus on developing in new members the foundational “power” habits of prayer, Bible study, and witnessing.

### New Member Discipleship and the _Discipleship Handbook_

When we understand that the discipleship process follows the growth cycle, that the primary instruments of discipleship are people, that the goal of discipleship is Christlikeness, and that the power of discipleship comes from God, we are ready to establish a new member discipleship plan that will improve both member involvement and retention rates. The General Conference Sabbath School and Personal Ministries Department has developed the _Discipleship Handbook_, which may be used as the foundation of a new member discipleship plan in any local church. The remainder of this article will use the _Discipleship Handbook_ to show how a local church can apply the principles of discipleship in a practical way to disciple new members.

But first, why would we want to use a book for new member discipleship if true discipleship is based on relationships more than books, classes, or programs? While it is true that books don’t make disciples, they do equip disciple-makers! Ellen White had these wise words to say regarding the thinking of many church members: “Many would be willing to work if they were taught how to begin.”<sup>10</sup> There are a few important things to remember about the practical application of making disciples: (1) discipleship happens at the local church, (2) church members, and not pastors, are the primary disciple-makers, and (3) even most experienced members are not familiar with how to mentor new members. In light of these realities, and Ellen White’s counsel that church members need taught “how to begin,” it becomes vitally important that tools and resources be provided to equip church members with a simple process and clear direction for the discipleship of new members. This is the purpose of the _Discipleship Handbook_.

### How to Use the _Discipleship Handbook_

It is important to make the distinction that the _Discipleship Handbook_ is not merely a book about discipleship. Rather, it is a local church discipleship tool that can be used in the discipleship process of every newly baptized church member. When considering the five phases of the disciple-making process (prepare, plant, cultivate, harvest, preserve), the _Discipleship Handbook_ fits in the final phase—the nurture and training of new members for preserving the harvest. The book contains 26 chapters, which correlate to 26 weekly meetings (six months) between mentors and new members.

To begin, local church leaders should read through Appendix A, “The Discipleship Plan,” to understand how to implement a simple discipleship plan for new members. They should then give a copy of the book to as many members as possible, asking them to read and familiarize themselves with the book in preparation for using it to mentor newly baptized church members. Because every member is to engage in the work of making disciples, every member should be preparing for a time in the future when they will serve as a local church discipleship mentor for someone newly baptized. Alternatively, only a small group of experienced members already willing to serve as mentors could be asked to read the book to familiarize themselves with the new member discipleship process.

The process for using the _Discipleship Handbook_ is straightforward and simple. When new members are baptized, each one is paired with a more experienced member called a mentor. Both new members and mentors are given a _Discipleship Handbook_ if they don’t already have one. Beginning immediately after baptism, mentors and new members meet weekly to review one chapter of the _Discipleship Handbook_ together. This may be done individually or in a small group. It may be ideal to meet before prayer meeting or after church, thus merely adding an hour to a day when the mentor and new member already plan to be in the same place. In Appendix A, “The Discipleship Plan,” one-page meeting outlines are provided to guide the mentor in what to do during the weekly meetings. These outlines include discussion questions for the chapter being read that week. More important than this, however, are the activity ideas given to mentors to integrate the new members into the life and

10 |

DISCIPLING, NURTURING, AND RECLAIMING

mission of the church. Activities such as introducing new members to members they haven’t yet met, arranging for Sabbath lunch and fellowship with other members, inviting new members to experience family sundown worship, taking new members on outreach activities, and many other recommended activities are suggested in the weekly outlines. These activities, or similar substitutes, are essential for training new members and for integrating them into the life of the church.

In the second weekly meeting, which focuses on the topic of the Bible in the devotional life, the new member is encouraged to begin using the Bible and Spirit of Prophecy reading plan found in Appendix B of the _Discipleship Handbook_. This reading plan consists of daily readings of 15 to 20 minutes per day. As the new members are guided to a Bible passage to read during their daily devotional time, they are also asked to read a correlated passage in the writings of Ellen White. Each week, when mentors and new members meet, they are encouraged in the weekly outlines to begin their meeting by sharing one insight gained from their devotional time that week. By doing this, support and accountability are provided to help nurture the daily devotional habit in the new member. Of course, in order for the new member to follow the reading plan, the mentor will need to provide the necessary Ellen White books, or point them to free access versions on apps or websites.

It is important that the local church personal ministries leader, or someone appointed as a discipleship ministry leader, provide active oversight of the new member discipleship process. Biweekly or monthly mentor meetings are one way to do this. Alternatively, the discipleship ministry leader may make personal contact every few weeks with each mentor. The reason this support and accountability is so important is that it is often the case that new member discipleship breaks down because the mentors are not fully committed. They may allow difficulties in schedules or distractions in their lives to prevent them from gaining any momentum with weekly meetings. If the meetings between mentors and new members don’t happen weekly, it greatly reduces the quality of the disciple-making.

Over the course of the six-month process, mentors and new members will study many important topics. The 26 chapters in the _Discipleship Handbook_ cover discipleship, the Bible, the Spirit of Prophecy, personal prayer, character development, family worship, Adventist mission and identity, personal witnessing, church attendance, church ordinances, church organization, Adventist history, Adventist ministries, lifestyle, Sabbath observance, reverence, stewardship, health, modesty, entertainment, marriage and family, the evangelism cycle, preparing the soil of the heart, planting the seed of truth, cultivating spiritual interests, and harvesting and preserving decisions for Christ with ongoing discipleship.

### Foundation Principles and the _Discipleship Handbook_

We began this article with certain foundation principles of discipleship, the first being that disciple-making is a process that follows the growth cycle. This is reflected in the _Discipleship Handbook_ in various ways: (1) the last five chapters provide instruction in the evangelism cycle and all five phases of disciple-making, (2) the weekly outlines encourage the mentor to engage in several hands-on soul-winning activities with the new member, and (3) at the conclusion of the book, the new member is encouraged to use the book in the future to mentor someone even newer to the faith.

The second principle was that the instruments of discipleship are people. This is reflected in the discipleship plan outlined in the _Discipleship Handbook_ by the pairing of each new member with a more experienced mentor. This vital relationship is built by incorporating weekly meetings as well as activities they experience together outside the meetings. In addition to the relationship between the new member and the mentor, there is also an intentional effort to connect the new member to both the worldwide church (e.g., history, organization, ordinances, etc.) and the local congregation (e.g., meeting attendance, social life, mission, etc.).

The third principle was that the goal of discipleship is Christlikeness. This principle can be seen in the _Discipleship Handbook_ in various ways. The very first chapter, “To Be Like Jesus,” establishes this as the goal of discipleship. The fifth chapter, “By Beholding,” focuses on becoming like Jesus by beholding Him in prayer and the reading of His Word. Various aspects of practical, Christlike living are also reflected in the Christian lifestyle chapters.

Fourth and last is the principle that the power of discipleship is from God. This principle is applied from the outset of the _Discipleship Handbook_, with an introduction in the first chapter to the eight spiritual “power” habits of consistent prayer, Bible study, family worship, Sabbath School attendance, church attendance, prayer meeting or small group attendance, personal witnessing, and involvement in church ministries. Several chapters are dedicated to giving practical guidance and strong encouragement to developing these spiritual habits. The Bible and Spirit of Prophecy reading plan is also introduced to equip new members with a simple plan that can help them discover the power of a consistent devotional life.

### Conclusion

Whether you utilize the _Discipleship Handbook_ or something similar, waste no time in employing an intentional and systematic plan to disciple every new member in your church or territory. With the four discipleship principles outlined in this chapter as your foundation, aim to develop every member into a loving, self-denying, soul winner—like Jesus. By doing this, you will not be limited to the plan of addition, but will experience the abundant joy of the plan of multiplication. “One soul, won to the truth, will be instrumental in winning others, and there will be an ever-increasing result of blessing and salvation.”<sup>11</sup>

_Jim Howard is associate director of the General Conference Sabbath School and Personal Ministries Department. His 17 years in pastoral and administrative ministry were preceded by a 12-year career in corporate accounting. He is married to Sonya, his wife of 24 years, and has two daughters—Kayla, 22, and Lindsey, 19. Throughout Howard’s ministry of preaching, teaching, training, and developing resources for soul winning and discipleship, his burden has been to lead every member to a closer walk with Jesus through communion with God, fellowship with the church, and active involvement in both personal and public outreach._

**Endnotes:**

<sup>1</sup> Bible texts in this chapter are from the New King James Version.

<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, _Evangelism_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1946), p. 355.

<sup>3</sup> Ellen G. White, _Christ’s Object Lessons_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1900, 1941), p. 354.

<sup>4</sup> Ellen G. White, _Christian Service_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1925), p. 69

<sup>5</sup> E. G. White, _Evangelism_, p. 356

<sup>6</sup> E. G. White, _Christian Service_, p. 59.

<sup>7</sup> Ellen G. White, _Prayer_ (Nampa, Idaho: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 2002), p. 84.

<sup>8</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Great Controversy_ (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1911), p. 519.

<sup>9</sup> The resources mentioned are currently available with the exception of the _Bible Study Handbook_, which is currently planned to be published by the end of 2021.

<sup>10</sup> Ellen G. White, _Maranatha_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1976), p. 99.

<sup>11</sup> E. G. White, _Christian Service_, p. 59.