---
title: Organizing For the Harvesting Meeting
---

Organizing is a key component of effective public evangelism. Evangelism is a team ministry, and that takes organization. Your evangelism will be most effective and fulfilling if you involve a team of leaders that are committed believers who have a living love relationship with God. It is the relationship your members and your team develop with people that will help them to decide to follow Jesus and join your church.

There are nineteen connected team ministries. The following ministry descriptions with their responsibilities and personnel will need to be adapted to your local circumstances:

**1. Pre-Work Committee**:

It is responsible to plan an effective friendship evangelism and outreach program prior to the meetings. It will seek to both train and involve church members in various forms of friendship, creative, and Bible study evangelism, including a Bible school, prior to the meetings. It should organize and train members to pre-register guests for the meetings.

The committee consists of the Personal Ministries Director or appointed chairperson, Personal Ministries Secretary, Interest Coordinator, Pastor(s), Bible workers, Bible School Director, literature evangelists, and energetic, excited, spiritual church members who have a passion for evangelism.

**2. Prayer Coordinator**:

He or she is responsible to

1. Organize one or more prayer bands. Each prayer band should, well in advance of the meetings, meet regularly to pray for the meetings, for members’ contacts, and for the church’s spiritual readiness.
2. Give at least one short presentation on the power and necessity of prayer before the meetings begin. A bulletin insert or other presentation would be appropriate.
3. Have a special prayer session before the meetings begin. Some very successful campaigns do it for forty days. Another very successful and more specific approach is on a Sabbath a week or two before the meetings begin, have a day of fasting and prayer. After Sabbath School and church, start the prayer session and continue until sundown. Take sheets of paper, write down different categories of people, such as, backsliders, Bible Study interests, unbaptized children, family members, visitors to church programs, etc. Write down the names of specific people under these categories. Pray for them by name. Then, before you break up, divide those names among those doing the praying. Each of them need to be visited that week, given a personal invitation to come, but then the visitor must say, “I will come by your house. Will you come with me?”
4. Set up a prayer request box or other system at the meetings for getting prayer requests from the attendees.
5. During the meetings, set aside a private room and gather a group each night to pray during the meetings. (A sign-up sheet at church will probably be the easiest way to facilitate this.) The prayer agenda may include the speaker, the workers, the presence of the Holy Spirit, guests, those who should attend, problems, blessings, and requests.

This ministry is the foundation of all others. The person chosen to lead should have a great burden for the success of the meetings, be a great “prayer warrior,” and a good organizer.

**3. Advertising Coordinator**:

He or she is responsible to oversee advertising to the public and within the church, seeing that all deadlines are met. The person should

1. See that handbill material such as the speaker bio, dates, topics, and the directional map to the location are taken to the press and all printing arrangements are made well in advance.
2. Confirm which zip codes, if any, will receive your advertising.
3. Make sure handbills are delivered on time by the Post Office.
4. See that members receive the handbills in time to invite their contacts and are inspired and instructed on approaches to use. See that regular promotion is made in the church service, in bulletins, on bulletin boards, etc.
5. Arrange for free or paid advertising in the newspaper, on radio, and television.
6. Arrange for posters to be put up.
7. Care for sign and directional signs at the meeting place.

**4. Children’s Program Coordinator**:

This person is most vital. Children are often neglected at meetings when they have the greatest potential. When converted, they have a whole life to live for the Lord. The day of this writing the story was told of an old man who had been prayed for all his life and was finally baptized. Everyone was thrilled, but two weeks later he was dead. No one thought much of the eleven year old who was baptized at the same time, but, think of it, she has a lifetime to live for Jesus.

Many families simply cannot attend evangelistic meetings if there is no children’s program. Children who are excited about the children’s programs also tend to bring their parents to the meetings. And their hearts are perfect ground for sowing seeds of truth. The children’s meetings are vital to the success of the overall campaign and to the future.

The coordinator is responsible to

1. Organize child care for ages 0-10. If possible, have at least two separate programs, one for younger and one for older children.
2. Plan an effective program either using generally available material or your own. Be sure to order it early. It is very helpful if the programs can be linked to the adult messages.
3. Recruit at least two staff members for each program each night. Make sure they will be on time and will stay until all the children are picked up by their parents or another. For security purposes, provide sign-in sheets where parents sign in and sign out with their names and their children’s names. The same person must sign them both in and out.
4. Organize follow-up for children who make decisions to follow Jesus. This may include offering rides to Sabbath school, church, Pathfinders, and baptismal classes.

**5. Music Committee/Coordinator**:

This person is responsible to

1. Arrange a music schedule in coordination with the speaker, pastor, and platform chairman.
2. Choose participants and musical selections that fit with the message and that bring the right spiritual atmosphere to the meeting.
3. Arrange for instrumentalists/pianists to accompany or perform special music.
4. Possibly plan a “music fest” of praise and worship at the end of the meetings.

**6. Host**:

The host begins the program each night with a welcome, opening prayer, and announcements. The host is responsible for making sure that

1. The meeting starts on time.
2. People feel welcome and comfortable. Smiles and enthusiasm are helpful.
3. Announcements regarding the meetings are clearly made, such as upcoming topics, location of bathrooms, children’s program, etc.
4. The audience is thanked for coming and urged to return. Keep closing remarks gracious but brief.
5. He or she is available to visit with people as they leave. People will appreciate visiting with the hostcelebrity.

**7. Greeter/Usher Coordinator**:

This person is responsible to

1. Arrange for the correct number of ushers and greeters.
2. Prepare a seating chart of the venue, and assign ushers on the basis of one per four of five rows of attendees.
3. Provide offering containers (one per row), quiz envelopes, pens, pencils, decision cards, etc. for ushers.
4. Trains ushers to help people find seats; make friends; give a good impression; distribute and collect quiz envelopes, decision cards, and pens/pencils; handle possible disturbances; take up offerings (one bucket per row, so it will be quick); bring in extra chairs if necessary; and, if applicable, watch for need of climate control (people putting on sweaters or fanning themselves, etc.).
5. Instruct greeters about registration process and making a good impression.
6. Arrange for someone to be at the meeting place at least an hour early to get the building and other things that need to be cared for prepared.
7. Arrange for decision cards to be provided for ushers when needed.
8. Make sure that the appropriate people are ready in the front when a call is made for people to come forward, so that they can greet them, pray for them, and get their names and information.

Greeters and ushers must be pleasant and helpful and should be able to make each person feel at home, at ease, and welcome.

**8. Row Host/Ushers**:

These people befriend everyone sitting in their section of pews, distribute and collect decision cards, and take up offerings as they are directed by the Greeter/Usher Coordinator.

**9. Registration and Attendance Tracking Coordinator**:

It is highly recommended that you engage in a preregistration and registration process to track your visitors. This process has been used very successfully to help create and maintain high attendance, and to facilitate effective follow-up. At the time of this writing, Amazing Facts offers to supply free software for those able to track attendance with a computer. Go to www.gospelharvest.org. The registration and attendance tracking coordinator is responsible to

1. Print or order pre-registration cards for the congregation.
2. Order ticket/registration books for the meetings or put together one’s own registration process.
3. Train registration team beforehand on registration process.
4. Be at the meeting place an hour early every night.
5. Oversee efficient and organized registration on opening night.
6. Ensure that tickets are collected at the door and put into the computer or recorded each night.

**10. Ticket Collection Coordinator**:

He or she is responsible to recruit enough ticket collectors/literature distributors to have one, or preferably two, people beside each door, making sure, as much as possible, in a pleasant way, that no one, including members, goes by without registering or giving their ticket on the way in.<sup>12</sup>

**11. Bible School Coordinator**:

The Bible School Coordinator is responsible to run a Bible school during the meetings. The Bible school should be high priority next to children’s meetings. We are introducing it as number 11 so as to not confuse its activities with the work of the greeters, ushers, those who register and deal with tickets. These workers can work together with the Bible school workers.

In addition to assisting with a Bible school graduation the first night of the meetings, as mentioned above, the Bible school during the meetings will endeavor to have many students ready for graduation, and some for baptism, at the end of the series of meetings.

Here are six reasons why a Bible school should be operated during the meetings:

1. **It is Very Successful**. Often more than half who finish the course during the meetings are baptized.
2. **Reinforces the Message**. The Bible lessons review and reinforce the message heard from the pulpit, helping listeners to understand more clearly and retain more of the message, thus aiding them in making quality decisions.
3. **Clarifies the Message**. The Bible lessons enable the Bible school workers to discover and clarify points in the sermon needing clarification in the minds of the students, and to pray with them.
4. **Aids in Decisions**. The Bible lessons give participants an opportunity to respond through the answer sheets. Some of the visitors attending the reaping meeting will not fill out the decision cards; however, many of them will enroll in the Bible course during the meetings and will record their decision on the answer sheets.
5. **Aids in Visitation**. The Bible lessons help provide those calling for decisions in the homes with the vital response information obtained from the returned answer sheets and from conversations with the students.
6. **Aids in Necessary Bonding**. The Bible School makes it easy for interests to interact, form friendships, and bond with local members running the Bible school, so they feel comfortable when they are invited to church.

Basically, here is how the Bible school operates:

Guests are invited to pick up a lesson on the way in or on the way out of the meetings. They study it, fill out the answer sheet, and bring it to the Bible school table at the next meeting, leave it, and pick up the next lesson. Their answer sheet is graded before the next meeting. When they return they receive their graded answer sheet and the next lesson. This procedure continues to the end of the course.

The lesson topic should not run ahead of the evening message but should correspond with it as much as possible.

Here are some helpful details on running the school:

1. Banner: Place an attractive banner above one or two display tables in a highly visible location at the entrance of the meeting place. It should give the title of the Bible school and say, “Free Bible Guides.”
2. The greeters and ticket collectors mentioned above warmly welcome guests, make them aware of the free lessons by directing and pointing them to the Bible School tables, where they are again greeted warmly and handed the first study guide containing a welcome letter that explains how to do the course. The worker should ask the prospective student to take the lesson, read it, fill out the answer sheet, return it to the table the next night, and pick up the next lesson, and then, add something like, “I’m sure you will enjoy this very much, as I did.” (There should be enough workers at the tables so the students and prospective students are not lined up and delayed in entering or leaving the meetings.)
3. When the students return their answer sheets they should be checked and returned to them by outgoing, radiant, caring, non-argumentative Christians, with a love and burden for people. They should be friendly and know how to compliment, encourage and answer questions tactfully in a way that builds bridges and not walls. They should be well organized and efficient.
4. The person reviewing the answer sheets should write brief encouraging notes on the answer sheets, such as, “Terrific!” “You are doing great!” “Keep up the good work!” Everyone should receive a grade of “Good,” “Very Good,” “Excellent,” or “Perfect.” Mark them with red pens only. Responses should be recorded and the answer sheet attached to the next lesson. It is easiest to place these in a file numerically so that they can be found instantly, in seconds, to return to the student. When returning and receiving study guides, the Bible school worker should ask how they enjoyed the lesson, if it was clear, and if there are any questions. A friendly discussion may follow. This will enable a close relationship to be formed. The worker will soon be able to determine the degree of interest, make the home visitation personnel aware of the good interests, and appropriately connect the two.
5. If students fail to bring their answer sheets, you may need to encourage them. Keep them aware of the graduation planned at the close of the meeting.
6. At the appropriate times prepare visitation cards from the answer sheet records, including decisions made, and give these to the pastor and the visitation team.<sup>13</sup>

**12. Materials Coordinator**:

He or she is responsible to see that materials to be handed out in the meetings are ordered, in place, handed out by volunteers at the appropriate times, and that people who missed past nights receive theirs. Materials also include pens, pencils, paper, etc.

**13. Technical Committee/Coordinator**:

This person ensures that sound and projector equipment is functioning correctly at all times. The equipment should be functioning two days before the meetings begin. Each person in charge should be there two hours before the opening meeting and thirty minutes on following nights. Spare projector bulbs should be there too. Sound levels, quality, and recordings need expert assistance throughout the series.

**14. Visitation Coordinator/Committee**:

This group under its leader is responsible to organize and lead out in the visitation of prospective individuals, as follows.

1. First, invite people on the church interest list.
2. First week of the meetings: Visit those who have stopped attending after the first three nights. The visit should be done by, if possible, a friend of the guest and should be informal and brief. Leave material missed or a gift and invite them back. Don’t be pushy or manipulative.
3. Second week of the meetings: Visit by phone or personally those who stopped attending after the first week. Be prepared to answer objections on doctrinal issues by saying, “I’d like to hear what the speaker has to say about that. Why don’t you put it in the question box?” Also visit those who have indicated an interest in baptism.
4. Third week: Begin the clearing process for those who have been filling out decision cards. Answer objections.
5. Continue to visit good interests and baptismal candidates following the meetings.

People who do the visitation should be totally dedicated, friendly, skilled in making friendships, and as much as possible, skilled in the art of helping people make decisions. The visitation team should consist of the pastor and may include the Personal Ministries Director, elders, Bible workers, literature evangelists, qualified greeters, and other church members.

**15. Transportation Coordinator**:

He or she is responsible to

1. Make sure people who need rides get them.
2. Have his or her phone number or contact details listed in the bulletin a few weeks in advance of the meetings so that he or she can be contacted by any church members who are aware of people who need rides but are unable to provide them.
3. If possible, make a map of locations where church members live and work, in order to find convenient rides for contacts.
4. Provide the phone numbers, names, addresses, and directions of the contact to the member picking them up. Call or visit both the contact and the member in finalizing the pick up arrangement and time.

**16. Parking Coordinator**:

He is responsible to organize parking attendants and ensure there are enough to direct traffic, especially on the opening night; provide umbrellas for rainy nights; and remove, each night, any unwanted literature that may be placed on cars.

**17. Baptism Coordinator**:

To make sure that this is a beautiful and unforgettable experience for each person baptized, the baptism coordinator is responsible to

1. Ensure that the baptismal tank is attractive, clean, and that the water is warm.
2. Ensure that there are sufficient baptismal robes in all sizes needed and that they are clean and pressed. There should be sufficient clean handkerchiefs and a few extra towels as well.
3. Ensure that the changing facilities are clean, and privacy is available for changing clothes.
4. Enlist sufficient deacons and deaconesses to assist candidates to prepare, and in getting in and out of the baptismal tank.
5. See that there is a gift, such as a card, rose, book, etc. available as a memento of this most special occasion, to be presented by whom the pastor suggests, such as the one who led the convert to Christ.

**18. Spiritual Friends Coordinator**:

The on-going responsibility of this person is to

1. Prepare a welcoming gift, such as Welcome to the Seventh-day Adventist Church.
2. See that new believers are cared for, nurtured, and involved in evangelism and church activities. This must be done immediately to avoid their becoming Laodicean.
3. Match each new member or church attendee with a spiritual friend who can build personal contact and encourage them. If possible, maximize on alreadybuilt friendships and/or commonalities.
4. Organize the church to support and get to know them. The Sabbath School Action Unit support system is ideal to assist with this and the above. (See endnote 5.)

**19. Treasurer**:

His or her responsibility is to oversee all financial aspects of the program, keep track of all receipts, and to prepare a final report for the board.<sup>14</sup>

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>12</sup> Ibid., Session 13: “Organizing for Evangelism,” pp. 1-23.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>13</sup> Dan Guild, Kurt Johnson, Calvin Smith, Discover Bible School Manual. (Simi Valley, CA: The Voice of Prophecy, 2003).

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>14</sup> ShareHim Team, The Harvest Is Ready: ShareHim Boot Camp Training Manual, (Charlotte, North Carolina, 2005), Session 13: “Organizing for Evangelism,” pp. 1-23.