---
title: The Reclamation of Discipleship as the Primary Missional Focus in the Seventh-day Adventist® Church
---

_Tim Madding, D.Min._

My hope is to give you some things to think about as you process discipleship in your sphere of influence, in your church, in your ministry context. The title of this presentation supposes that discipleship is not the primary missional focus in the Seventh-day Adventist Church. I am of the assumption that it is not, but it should be, and I’ll explain what I mean by that.

The mission of the Seventh-day Adventist Church comes from the Great Commission in Matthew 28:19, 20. Here Jesus Christ says to “go . . . and make disciples” (verse 19).<sup>1</sup> I believe that our mission as a Seventh-day Adventist Church is to make disciples. That is our mission. That is our purpose. Everything that we do, the reason that we exist, is for the purpose of making disciples. I also believe that this is not where our focus has been, at least not recently. Over the past few decades, it has not been that focus. Our focus has been on programming and baptisms.

Let me explain . . . You measure what you value. This is demonstrated when we talk about a ministry scorecard. A scorecard is a measurement that which you value. We typically in the church (local and among the leadership) value programs and baptisms. That’s what we measure. I’ve worked at the conference level, both on the executive committee and as a ministerial director. When we’d sit down and plan out the year, it’s a lot about programming. When we evaluate the success or effectiveness of a pastor and/or church, it’s baptisms. Those are the things that we like to measure to determine if we’re successful.

So when we have a program in a church, and many churches will have programs throughout this Easter season, whether it’s a success or not will be based on the number of people who come to the program. Did the program go well; did a lot of people come out? “That was a success; let’s do it again.” What made it a success? Everything went well, everybody had a good time, and there were a lot of people present. That tells us that the program is our purpose—it is our mission. Not how many people came to Christ, how many people grew in Christ, how many people grew in their relationship with God, a relationship with others, etc. Discipleship was not the value—it was the program.

Or baptisms. Throughout the North American Division and throughout the world church, baptisms are something that we measure. In fact, there are places where you cannot be ordained as a pastor unless you’ve had a certain number of baptisms, and pastors can be let go or fired in certain divisions in our world church if they don’t acquire a certain number of baptisms. There’s a whole ethical side to that issue, as to whether they’re ethically getting disciples versus the number of baptisms.

So it has to be about discipleship. Discipleship is our mission. It is our purpose. A disciple is someone who is a follower of the precepts, instructions, and life of an individual. A disciple of Jesus Christ is someone who follows the teachings and life of Jesus Christ. What did Jesus teach? He taught about the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of God. What does that mean? How does that apply to people? There is teaching involved with that.

But also the life of Jesus Christ—how He lived, how He demonstrated the character of the Father, what He did with His time, and how He treated others should be prevalent in the life of the believer. If I were to define it, I would say that a disciple is a follower of Jesus’ teachings and life that is actively making disciples of others. When Jesus Christ gave the Great Commission, when He said, “Go and make disciples,” He was telling the disciples to go and make disciples. A disciple is someone who believes what Jesus believes, lives what Jesus lived, and is actively making other disciples of Jesus Christ as well.

So our mission and our focus should be for people to understand what Jesus taught, how he lived. They’re growing in that belief. Theology is important. They’re growing in that lifestyle. They’re living like Jesus. They’re loving their neighbors the way Jesus loves their neighbors. They’re sacrificing themselves, giving of themselves, putting themselves out for the benefit of other people. But they are also actively discipling other people in Jesus Christ. If they are not actively discipling others, then are they a true follower of Jesus? Are they living the life that Jesus lived? Are they fulfilling the mission of making disciples if they’re not making disciples?

That’s what we need to be pushing against. Discipleship is a journey, not a destination. And I say this because oftentimes we work so hard in our church to acquire baptisms. I do an evangelistic series almost every year. I’ve got one planned later this month that we’re doing, so I believe in public evangelism. I believe in the three angels’ messages and preach them often. I’m preaching on that in a few weeks. But we spend so much time, so much money, so much effort, to hold an event of meetings, a program of meetings, so that people become baptized, and then we’re done. Our focus was on the event, the program.

OK, one more thing, and then I’ll be done with this. We focus so much on the event and the planning that we miss out on what real discipleship is: people growing in Christ, developing that lifestyle of following Jesus Christ. We say, “OK, you’re baptized, now you’re a member of the church,” and what do we do to help them continue to grow? What are we intentionally doing? Now, are we intentional about people being baptized? Absolutely. We have all the programs, all the resources available, for that, but then what? Well, we have a few things here, a few things there, but at the local church, are we as intentional about this journey of discipleship?

The second important principle to understand in discipleship is that discipleship happens through relationships, not programming. Let me illustrate this. Note Hebrews 10:23-25: “Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for He who promised is faithful; and let us consider how to stimulate one another to love and good deeds, not forsaking our own assembling together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another; and all the more as you see the day drawing near.”

Now, we refer to this a lot to say you need to come to church, and that’s part of “assembling together.” What you see in this context is a group of people that are in relationship together to help each other in their faith, to strengthen each other in their faith so that they don’t fall backwards, they continue moving forward, they continue growing in their understanding of who God is, in what it means to live like Jesus lived, and to disciple other people.

This is a process of growth that is occurring happens through relationships. Everywhere in the Bible we see discipleship happening by God using one person to use another. Jesus said to Saul, “Why are you persecuting Me?” Saul had this aha moment. He had hundreds of questions. And what we do not see Jesus doing is sitting down along the curb of that street and saying, “Let Me explain it all to you.” No, He sends him to a believer, because that discipleship process happens through relationships. “After these things Jesus and His disciples came into the land of Judea, and there He was spending time with them and baptizing” (John 3:22). How did Jesus disciple? He spent time with His disciples. That’s how He discipled. It has to be through relationships; it has through spending time with them.

This Greek word for spending time means to rub against. When you rub against somebody, you start to rub off on them. Every once in a while I have to take my suit in and get it cleaned, because typically my shoulders get all this makeup on them, because all the nice older women in the church always have to give me their hugs on Sabbath morning. And after a while my whole shoulder is just covered in makeup. They’re rubbing off on me. This is what Jesus is doing. By spending time with them, He’s rubbing off on them.

So when we’re talking about discipleship, it doesn’t happen through programming—it happens by people being in a relationship together, intentional relationships of moving people forward. I believe that just as intentional as we are about an evangelistic series, about people coming to baptism, we need to be intentional about our discipleship path, what it means to be in discipleship. The key is to understand that we are moving people from wherever they are into a stronger relationship with Jesus Christ.

Ellen White said this: “The members of the church should give diligent attention to the Word of God, that they may understand their duty, and then labor with all their energies of mind and heart to make their church one of the most prosperous in the land.”<sup>2</sup> Now, I don’t think when she says that our church would be the most prosperous in the land that she meant it to be the biggest church, the wealthiest church, coated in gold and diamonds. I think what she means when she talks about being the most prosperous in the land is that it is the most influential, the church of the greatest Christian influence in the community.

And that happens only through focusing on discipleship. I think what Ellen White is calling us to do is fall down on our knees, to pray, to study, to research, and to ask ourselves how we can be most effective at accomplishing what Jesus Christ has called us to do: to be making disciples.

There is this spiritual receptivity scale developed by James F. Engel, often referred to as the Engel scale. This spiritual receptivity scale is a way of representing the journey from no knowledge of God to spiritual maturity as Christian believer.

**-10**---------------------**0**---------------------**+10**

Zero, the center of the scale, represents baptism. The far left of the scale represents those people who are not yet with Christ, and the right of the scale represents those people who are growing in Christ. So to the far extreme left at negative 10 are those people that are either hostile toward God or have absolutely no knowledge of God whatsoever, as they continue to grow from negative 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Zero is a place a baptism, surrendering their heart, falling on their knees, and giving their lives fully into the lordship of Jesus Christ. Then they begin growing in Christ, positive 1, 2, 3, all the way up to positive 10, where we see the image of Jesus Christ fully reflected in the life of the individual.

Everything we do as a church is to move people wherever they are on this scale, up the scale one step at a time. So where are you at? Where do you see yourself on this scale? You see yourself at a positive 1, positive 2—positive 6, maybe? Do you think God is happy with you staying at positive 6, or do you think He wants you to grow to positive 7? What are we as a church doing to help you grow to a positive 7? What about your neighbors that might be down at a negative 5 or 6? What can we do to help them to move from there up the scale, one step at a time?

Everything we do as a church should be to move people wherever they are on the scale up one step at a time. That is discipleship. And we are doing it intentionally. We’re not spending massive amounts of money, mass amounts of effort, to pull off a program that lasts four to six weeks. We baptize 20, 30, 40, 60 people and then say, “All right, we’re done. Now we can just get back to church as normal,” which is just a bunch of regular programs to entertain the members. Because then what happens is we get all these people baptized, and then they’re gone. They’re not staying. They’re not connected. Why? Because we put so much energy into them to coming to the place of baptism but nothing after that.

So how do we do that? We need to be thinking steps versus programs. When we’re thinking discipleship, we think of steps, not programs. If someone is coming to Christ, what are the steps that take place from a place of somebody who doesn’t yet have a relationship with Christ toward the image of Christ being fully reflected in the life of the individual? And as a church, you need to wrestle with that. You need to take the time praying it through and saying, What are the steps that happen in the life of the individual to get from where they are to where God has called them to be? A program is a system of services, opportunities, or projects, usually designated to meet a social need. Steps, on the other hand, are a series of actions, processes, or measures taken to achieve a goal.

We’re looking to move people one step at a time in their relationship with God, so what are the steps that we identify as a church? Baptism is one of those steps. Often the first step in the process of discipleship is the public proclamation and a decision that they have made in their heart. When we develop these steps, every step should be easy. Not to say surrendering your life to Jesus Christ is easy, but the opportunity for them to make that decision should be provided for them. They shouldn’t have to go through a series of obstacle courses to figure out what they need to do to get baptized. What do I need to do to start Bible studies, get baptized, join the church, etc.? Every step should be obvious.

Everybody, wherever they are, should know their next step in discipleship is this—whether they are new to your church or have been a member for years. Somebody who has just started coming to your church should know, when they are ready to take their next step, what it is. They should know what those steps are. Every step should be strategic. It should be designed to help them grow in their relationship with Christ, as a disciple of Jesus Christ. We are intentionally moving people one step at a time through that process.

In order to do that, we want to begin with a clearly defined process, designate a clear entry point to the process, design ministry for each step of the process, and evaluate whether such steps create movement. So we’re creating movement, helping people move in discipleship. We’re looking at our process of discipleship as to whether it’s accomplishing these. People know how to jump on board, like a carousel. They know where to jump on board; or if you’re using a baseball analogy, they know the first step is to home plate. Do they know how to do that? And do they know where they go next? When somebody hops off the carousel, do they know where to hop on next when they want to hop on, or what those opportunities are?

“God does not generally work miracles to advance His truth. . . . He works according to great principles made known to us, and it is our part to mature wise plans, and set in operation the means whereby God shall bring about certain results.”<sup>3</sup> We’re just providing that opportunity for people to take their next step in their relationship with Christ.

Let me just share with you briefly some of the things that we’re doing at the Beltsville Seventh-day Adventist Church. We’re constantly evaluating and looking at how we’re doing at accomplishing discipleship, so let me just share a few things for you. The first thing is that we have identified a clear discipleship process. We’ve outlined four steps in the process:

1. Connecting people with God.

2. Connecting people with each other.

3. Connecting people with the community.

4. Connecting people with a life of spiritual growth.

These are the four steps that we have outlined in our church. Please do not replicate them in yours. You’ve got to go through the work to make it happen. You’ve got to figure out what discipleship means for you in your context. Our church took quite a long time to work through this process to come up with this. I mean, we even spent a whole meeting discussing whether we wanted to use the word “connect.”

So you’ve got to figure out what you want to do. Obviously, connecting with God someone’s giving their life to Christ. Baptism is what that is— Bible studies, preparing for Bible studies, etc. Connecting with each other, they become part of the local church. They’re using their spiritual gifts within the church. They’re plugged into ministry in the church. With the community, they’re actively sharing their faith in Jesus Christ with other people in their family, etc., and they’re also serving the community by actively doing something to engage the social needs of the community. And a life of spiritual growth, knowing how to pray, how to study the Bible for themselves. They’re not dependent upon the pastor or a Sabbath School teacher to help them grow in their relationship with God. They are actively mentoring other people in their relationship with Christ.

This is how we’ve identified what a discipleship process looks like for us. At Beltsville Seventh-day Adventist Church we have identified our discipleship process. We call it Next Steps. That’s our Next Steps process, and we talk about Next Steps all the time, and we use that phrase because we want people to be thinking, **_What is my next step?_** Right now we are completely redesigning our look, so we’ve taken this Next Step look.

If you come to the Ammendale campus, the original campus of the Beltsville church, our welcome desk is covered with this, so that people know that’s where they go to find out what their next step is if they don’t know. We have banners with this on it that we’ve put up. We’ve identified these four steps in the process and are encouraging people to figure out what their next step is in their discipleship process.

As such, we have created four connect cards, one for each step in our process. These are out and available. We reference these on a regular basis, encouraging people to take their next step, whatever it is in their discipleship process.

So it’s this intentionality about moving people forward in discipleship. Just about everyone who comes is beginning to think, **_What’s my next step?_** Now, whether they choose to take it or not is up to them, but they’re getting that opportunity to know what their next step in their relationship with Christ is. Thank you.

_Tim Madding, D.Min., serves as lead pastor of the Beltsville Seventh-day Adventist Church, beginning there in October 2014. Tim, his wife, Andrea, and son Ethan live in Beltsville, Maryland, just outside our nation’s capital. Tim believes that the local church is God’s primary tool for the salvation of the world, and his personal mission is to prepare as many people as possible for the second coming of Jesus and is committed to resourcing the church for that purpose._

**Endnotes:**

<sup>1</sup> Bible texts in this chapter are from the New American Standard Bible.

<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, in Review and Herald, Sept. 6, 1884.

<sup>3</sup> Ellen G. White, _Christian Service_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1925), p. 228.

<sup>4</sup> Ibid., p. 121.