---
title: "Loving: When And How?"
---

> <p></p>
> “So Jacob served seven years to get Rachel, but they seemed like only a few days to him because of his love for her” (Gen. 29:20).

“‘Tis love that makes us happy, ‘Tis love that smoothes the way; It helps us mind, it makes us kind to others every day” – F. E. Belden.

The first love we meet in life is our dad and mom’s love. Next, we experience love from our siblings and friends. Then we see love in the adolescence years when a boy is attracted to a girl and a girl to a boy.

As young adults people begin to think seriously about planning a future home. A young man becomes interested in and chooses a special young lady. If they are attending college, marriage often comes after graduation. All of these different types of love influence the love that follows.

Parents naturally enjoy hugging and kissing their children. Some siblings will hug each other, but we usually don’t hug and kiss our friends. Husbands and wives should express their love in a warm embrace or a soft kiss. But expressions of love between young couples should not exceed certain limits before marriage.

Each of us likes to have our own things. When under control, it is good to work, save money, and make purchases. But when our desire for material things gets out of control, it makes people miserable and turns many into thieves.

That is the same way with love. It is a good thing to be desired and controlled. Healthy love is beautiful, kind, and pure. But when love is uncontrolled, when passion takes over, we fall into sin and disappoint ment. Our relationships become dead and dry when we are grasping after love instead of expressing genuine love. Our sad days will feel like long years.

So carefully play the game of pure love. Follow the rules and someday you will be prepared for a love that will make you happy and make years seem like a few brief days.

_—Eric B. Hare, Make God First, p. 22_