---
title: Introduction
---

God has called every Seventh-day Adventist Church be a transforming agent in its community, following the method of Jesus to bring help and hope through ministries of compassion in His name (see Luke 4:16-21; _Ministry of Healing_, p. 143). Adventist Community Services (ACS) is the descriptive label for a wide range of public services provided by the Seventh-day Adventist Church. It is also the name of the denomination’s community action organization that operates at the church level. (See chapter 2 for explanation of the difference between ACS and ADRA.)

Even though problems such as poverty, disease, disaster, and other social problems are multiplying around the world, there is a positive side to this challenge. These ever-present problems present unlimited opportunities for God’s people to experience the joy of service in providing compassionate care that alleviates and prevents suffering. This opens doors to reach people with the hope of Jesus Christ in the midst of their struggles.

The Seventh-day Adventist Church at the highest level has renewed its commitment to community services and redoubled its efforts to support and encourage this important ministry. The 2001 World Survey of church members revealed, among other things, that only 29% of our members are involved in their community. Findings from the World Survey are reflected in the Adventist church’s “Tell the World Initiative,” which has seven areas of emphasis: spiritual growth, community involvement, personal witness, city outreach, church planting, evangelistic programming, and media ministry. Goals have been set for each area of emphasis. One of the goals is to raise our community involvement to 40% by the year 2010. We invite you to join us in meeting that goal—and, in the years that follow, to continue increasing the ranks of God’s mighty community services army.

This Adventist Community Services leaflet is a tool for creating an organized response to the needs in your community. It is intended for an international audience. The church in North America has its own extensive handbook— _Ministries of Compassion,_ published by AdventSource—from which this leaflet has been adapted. (We use the term “ministries of compassion” to refer to any kind of helping ministry). The ACS leaflet is intended for guidance on the fundamentals of starting or growing community services ministries and is not a policy book. While it replaces Lay Activities Leaflet No. 10 (1976) it does not replace any policy documents or manuals produced by any division, union, or local conference. Some of the ACS leaflet’s contents may need to be adapted to suit the policies and procedures of the country or Seventh-day Adventist divisions where it is used. The principles of organization described herein are time-tested, so they should be considered a strong basis for establishing an effective Adventist Community Services program and ministry; however, the local situation must prevail.

Chapters 1 through 4 and chapter 6 are foundational for any type of program. Chapter 5 discusses specific ministry areas.

We affirm those individuals and churches, large or small, who are already involved in the community. It is our prayer that this tool will help you think through how your church can be more involved in the community; bringing hope and healing to people in the name of Jesus.

General Conference Sabbath School & Personal Ministries Department/ Adventist Community Services International