---
title: The Great Controversy
---

Lucifer was an angel who was created perfect, but pride led him to want equality with God and to desire the worship due only to Him. Lucifer, now called the devil or Satan, was eventually cast out of heaven along with a portion of the angels, whom he led to join him in his rebellion against God. Ezekiel 28:14-17; Isaiah 14:12-14; John 8:44; Revelation 12:4, 7-9.

Through deception and temptation, Satan led Adam and Eve into sin. Their fall corrupted humanity and the entire earth, ultimately changing it from a paradise to a battlefield. All the inhabitants of the universe are witnesses to the destructive results of Satan’s work as well as the power of God’s redemption in the lives of His people. Genesis 3:1-7; Romans 1:19-32; 8:19-23; Ephesians 3:10; 1 Corinthians 4:9; Ephesians 1:7-10.

All humanity is now involved in a great controversy between Christ and Satan regarding the character of God and His law. God sends His Son, His Spirit, and His angels to help us in our struggles against evil. The Bible repeatedly promises victory over Satan through Christ’s power in our lives. Romans 8:26, 27, 31-39; Hebrews 1:14; 2:14-18; Ephesians 6:10-13; 1 Corinthians 10:13; Jude 24; 1 John 3:8; Revelation 12:10, 11.

In the end, both those who are saved and those who are lost will acknowledge God as the only just ruler of the universe and the only one worthy of our worship. Satan, his angels, and all the unrighteous will then be destroyed, thus putting an end to all sin and evil. Perfect harmony will be restored throughout the universe, and all of God’s creatures will know that He is love. Isaiah 45:22-24; Philippians 2:5-11; Ezekiel 28:18, 19; Revelation 15:3, 4; 21:1-8.

**My Commitment**: _In this great controversy between Christ and Satan, I choose to follow Christ and honor Him. I am thankful for the love of the Father, the sacrifice of Christ, the power of the Holy Spirit, and the ministration of holy angels to help me be victorious._

- [x] Yes, I agree.
- [ ] I have questions.

`My questions`