---
title: What to Do When You Arrive at the Study
---

- _Be punctual._
- _Be enthusiastic_, cheerful, relaxed and friendly, when you greet them and throughout the study.
- _Keep the first visit brief_. Usually people are busy and you do not want to wear out your welcome.

1. To begin, you may say, “It is so good to see you again. How was your week?” Be intensely interested in them as they share.
2. An important principle is to talk about their interests and not yours.
3. Comment briefly on interesting items in the room. Begin to form a friendship. It is good to do the brief chatting before, not after, the study.

- After you make certain everyone is introduced and comfortable, you might begin by saying, “Well, I was wondering, how did you enjoy the first study guides?” When they respond, you may add, “Was there a particular point that you enjoyed the most?”

1. It is better to encourage and let the person express satisfaction with the lesson than to talk yourself.
2. Move into the study. Ask, “Do you have your guides handy?”

- _Suggested seating arrangements_: With a group, it is best to sit in a circle if possible. With one person, sit across the corner of a table.
- If your students have not studied, be understanding.

a) They may have had a very busy week, may have forgotten, (new habits are difficult to form) or lacked motivation.

Say, “I understand. I know you will really enjoy these.

Since we set aside this time for you, why don’t we take a few moments with the first one?”

Or say, “We know this is a very busy time. I’m sure you will have them finished by next week.” Pass it off as if nothing happened.

If the prospect refuses, offer an appropriate tract or lend a book, video, or DVD with your address or telephone number written there. Say, “If I can be of any help please let me know.”

b) Don’t wait. Pray for guidance and start another study immediately.