---
title: Running Your Church Literature Ministry
subtitle: Chapter 9
---

Most churches have used literature to some degree in their ministries. But a sparse or rarely used literature rack or a once-a-year book promotion comes far short of the potential of this ministry in our local churches. There’s a big difference between lackluster efforts to make literature available and an active literature ministry. In light of its importance to our end-time mission (see chapter 7), local churches should lead their members to place a higher priority on planting seeds of truth through literature: “The church must give her attention to the canvassing work. This is one way in which she is to shine in the world” (_Colporteur Ministry_, p. 7).

In this chapter you will learn how a local church can establish an active literature ministry. Such a ministry will help to create an evangelistic culture in the church, bless the individual members, and prepare the community for the coming of Jesus. “The great and wonderful work of the last gospel message is to be carried on now as it has never been before. The world is to receive the light of truth through an evangelizing ministry of the Word in our books and periodicals. Our publications are to show that the end of all things is at hand” (_Counsels to Writers and Editors_, p. 177).

#### The Literature Ministry Team

In order to have an active literature ministry in the local church, members need to be regularly reminded, encouraged, trained, and equipped. Specific plans and clear direction must be given. The church cannot be passive or sporadic in these areas and expect to accomplish much. This is why the key to an active literature ministry is to develop a strong team to propel it forward and to keep it fresh in the minds of the members.

**Leader**—The most important person on the literature team is the one elected or appointed to lead the ministry. This could be the personal ministries leader, an assistant personal ministries leader, or a local church publishing ministries coordinator (see _Seventh-day Adventist Church Manual_, pp. 96, 101). The ideal leader is one that has a burden for literature distribution and is not carrying too many other responsibilities.

**Secretary**—At least one person is needed to maintain the church’s inventory of resources, place orders as needed, and make sure literature displays and shelves are always well stocked for easy access by church members and visitors. Some or all of these tasks may be assigned to the personal ministries secretary, but it could also be helpful to appoint other members to assist as well.

**Ambassadors**—In addition to those directly responsible for the ministry, all church officers and department leaders should consider themselves ambassadors of the literature ministry. This is because most if not all departments of the church will benefit from incorporating literature distribution into their ministries. The literature ministry leader should personally visit with all other local church leaders to suggest and provide literature that could be used in their ministries and to recruit them as ambassadors of the literature ministry.

**Bible Study Ministry Coordinator**—All literature distribution should be done with the intent of leading to the next phase in the disciple-making process, which is to further cultivate spiritual interest with Bible studies. Therefore, the Bible study ministry coordinator should ensure that every piece of literature includes a prominent offer for free Bible studies. This can be done by placing a label on the outside of books and tracts, or by including a small tract or card on the inside.

#### Literature Types and Criteria

The wise selection of literature is one of the first and most important steps in developing an effective ministry. A wide range of Seventh-day Adventist literature is available, covering various doctrines, spiritual growth, practical Christianity, health, prophecy, and more. The literature chosen should:

- Be theologically sound and Christ-centered.
- Cover every major doctrine and key decision point.
- Vary in length from brief tracts to full-message books.
- Be inexpensive enough for free distribution, if possible.
- Look attractive with an up-to-date design.

If you have outdated literature gathering dust in an old closet, pull it out and offer it to the church members for a few weeks. Your church board might also discuss possible uses for it, but don’t use it as part of your literature ministry display. It might contain good information, but its dated appearance could cause people to view your church in a negative light.

Another important consideration is size and format. Various types of literature are available in order to meet the need of any situation. “Let the leaflets and tracts, the papers and books, go in every direction” (_Christian Service_, p. 151). Consider the following popular formats and ideal uses for each:

**Sharing Books**—The Conflict of the Ages series, _Steps to Christ_, _Christ’s Object Lessons_, _Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, and _The Ministry of Healing_, each authored by Ellen White, are some of the best time-tested sharing books. Every year the church also produces a new Missionary Book of the Year that is excellent for sharing. Local publishing houses often produce their own sharing books also, covering a broad range of topics. Sharing books are great for personal gifts, door-to-door outreach, mass distributions in a city, giveaways at fairs and conventions, or as supplemental reading for Bible study interests.

**Sharing Booklets**—Small sharing booklets of about 32 pages cover a single topic in a succinct but thorough way. A wide variety of doctrinal, practical, and prophetic topics may be found in booklet form. Sharing booklets are great to give to friends or as supplemental reading for Bible study or evangelistic meeting contacts.

**Tracts and Leaflets**—Small, pocket-sized sharing tracts and leaflets, often around eight pages long, are among the easiest to carry with you in your daily activities. They too are available in a wide range of topics. And because they’re both small and inexpensive, tracts and leaflets are excellent for both day-to-day sharing and mass distribution. They fit easily into purses, bags, and pockets, making them quickly accessible for friendship evangelism opportunities or to leave behind in public places.

**Magazines**—The church and its supporting ministries produce truth-filled magazines on various topics that can be distributed in the same way as sharing books or booklets. They also work especially well in waiting rooms. Some magazines are periodically produced and require a subscription, providing those who receive them with regular and ongoing opportunities to discover truth.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
See an example of a local church literature list at www.grow.adventist.org.

#### Making Literature Available

Once your local church has assembled a literature team and tentatively chosen the literature it would like to distribute, the following steps are needed in order to obtain the literature, make it available, and encourage members to share it:

**Develop and Approve a Budget**—Develop an estimated budget to be approved by the church board. The budgeted cost should cover enough literature for church visitors and event guests, regular distribution by members, mass distribution projects, department ministries, and community displays. It should also cover any racks, shelves, or displays you may need to purchase. Most churches have not invested much in literature, so don’t be surprised if some people initially object to spending more than usual. Be prepared to share the importance of this ministry using the encouragement and counsel found in chapter 4. We can’t afford not to invest in the central purpose of the church—spreading the gospel message.

**Order Literature and Display Racks**—Once the annual literature ministry budget has been approved, place your first order of literature. The personal ministries secretary usually does this, placing orders with Adventist bookstores and publishing houses. Ordering larger quantities than you may currently need is the best way to obtain discounted prices. But as a rule, limit these quantities to no more than what you estimate can be distributed in one year’s time. If you don’t already have them, you’ll also need to purchase display racks, shelving, or cabinets with the proper dimensions for your variety of literature. If you have difficulty finding displays with the proper dimensions, you can sometimes find church members willing to build something suitable.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
See images of sample literature displays at www.grow.adventist.org.

**Prepare Literature for Distribution**—The literature you share should include a special advertisement for Bible studies or more literature. Consider placing printed stickers on the literature with the information needed in order to request these additional resources. This could be a website, phone number, or email address. Alternatively, you could place on your literature rack small cards or tracts that are specifically designed to offer Bible studies, which can then be tucked inside any literature that is shared. If you choose this method, however, be sure to train and then remind members often of the importance of including this Bible study offer.

**Set Up the Literature Display**—Every church should have an evangelistic resource center where its literature, Bible study guides, and physical media are made available. This display is vital, serving as a refill station for members as well as a free resource for interested visitors. Consider these tips for an effective literature display:

- Put the display in the most prominent location possible, generally the church foyer. It should be a high-traffic location where people congregate. Some members may suggest displaying the literature in a back room or closet to avoid ruining the aesthetics of the church. While extra inventories of literature and Bible study guides may need to be stored in a separate resource room, don’t put your free display there. Make every effort to make it attractive, but put it in a prominent place. Getting out literature is more important than appearances.
- Allow room for a table or counter to be set up, whether permanently or only on special Sabbaths, where members of the literature ministry team can pass out flyers or new resources, sign people up to participate in a literature distribution project, etc.
- Always be sure that the literature display is well stocked and no resource is missing. Nothing will kill a literature ministry like barren display racks and shelves. To avoid this, the personal ministries secretary will need to monitor inventories regularly and purchase more as needed.
- Literature racks tend to collect Adventist periodicals that are meant primarily for church members. Keep these publications separate so they don’t take up the space intended for your evangelistic literature.

**Promote Literature Distribution**—It is a good practice to focus on personal ministries for five to 10 minutes during Sabbath services each week. This focus should often emphasize literature distribution. Include live testimonies, tips for sharing literature, or instructions regarding literature projects and initiatives. Members should be encouraged to take literature from the church’s free inventory each Sabbath for distribution.

#### Literature Projects and Initiatives

The weakness of the literature ministry in many local churches is a failure to include literature initiatives and projects in their evangelistic plans. To these churches, literature is viewed as an available resource, but it isn’t an integral part of the mission strategy. The key to strengthening the literature ministry in these churches is intentional planning.

The literature team should meet in the fourth quarter of each year to lay plans for the following year. They should develop a list of literature initiatives and projects, with corresponding dates and goals, to recommend to the church board for the following year. The board will likely want to see a tentative budget before approving these plans. Once approved, the plans should then be communicated and promoted regularly to the congregation. Every member should be enlisted to help, with special efforts being made to involve the children and youth of the church.

Consider the following ideas for your literature ministry, remembering to include with every piece of literature an offer for Bible studies or an invitation to an evangelistic event. Depending upon the size of the church, a typical year could include several of these projects and initiatives:

**Dedicated Pocket**—Every church should include this initiative in its annual evangelistic plans, whether the idea is given a title or not. It is the essence of literature ministry. The concept is drawn from a quote shared in the previous chapter: “Carry with you, wherever you go, a package of select tracts, which you can hand out as you have opportunity” (_Christian Service_, p. 151). All the church members are encouraged to “dedicate a pocket” to the Lord, whether on their person or in a handbag or purse, where they can carry truth-filled literature with them wherever they go. Each one can share these “silent messengers” (ibid., p. 147) with others.

**Sabbath School Mission Projects**—It is recommended that Sabbath School classes adopt quarterly mission projects to carry out in their local communities. At least one of these quarterly projects each year could be to distribute literature. Each class can set a distribution goal for a specific book or tract it would like to share with the community. Then, at the beginning of class, a progress report can be shared and more pieces of literature given to the class members for distribution the next week. Asking different members to share testimonies is a good way to motivate the rest of the class. Scheduling an afternoon outreach for mass distribution can also help the class to meet its goal.

**Prayer Meeting Mission Challenge**—Most churches have a prayer meeting or small group Bible study that meets each week. Incorporate a weekly “mission challenge” for those who attend and incorporate literature distribution. Here’s an example of 12 mission challenges:

1. Share 10 tracts.
2. Share 10 cards advertising Adventist TV or 
3. radio programming.
4. Share 10 cards offering Bible studies.
5. Share three missionary books.
6. Share five invitation flyers to an upcoming health event.
7. Invite someone to church.
8. Invite a neighbor or coworker to your house for lunch or dinner.
9. Share 10 invitation flyers to upcoming evangelistic meetings.
10. Invite a church visitor to lunch.
11. Share your personal testimony with someone.
12. Offer to bring three people to upcoming evangelistic meetings.
13. Post three spiritual websites or invitations on social media.

**GLOW-athon**—A marathon is 26 miles. A GLOW-athon is 26 days of sharing GLOW, or other small tracts, with the people in your community. Give a small card to every member with tips for sharing tracts on one side and a place to record the number of tracts distributed on each of the 26 days on the other side. Set distribution goals for each Sabbath School class, the church school, the departments of the church, as well as an overall church goal. Provide goal updates, training tips, pictures, and inspiring testimonies on every Sabbath of the GLOW-athon.

**World Impact Day and Literature Week/Month**—Every year the Adventist Church sets aside a day, typically the third Sabbath in April, for members around the world to distribute the Missionary Book of the Year in their communities. As with any outreach, preparations for this special day should be made well in advance. Please see chapter 15 for details on how to organize and conduct an effective door-to-door outreach effort. Though such efforts are often limited to about one hour of actual outreach, mass distribution projects like Impact Day may last a few hours to maximize the number of books that can be distributed.

The Sabbath of Impact Day is also the kickoff for a full week of literature distribution emphasis called Literature Evangelism Week. After an exciting mission-fueled Sabbath, members can continue the distribution of missionary books in their neighborhoods, workplaces, schools, and communities. Some have found that a literature emphasis month is even better than limiting it to a week! Plan literature outreach activities for each of the four Sabbaths in April to get the members involved and to plant thousands of seeds of truth.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
To find ideas and resources for global literature distribution days, visit www.publishing.adventist.org/mission365.

**Global Youth Day**—No segment of the church has as much energy for literature distribution as our youth. While their unique talents and abilities should be harnessed for every outreach effort, Global Youth Day is a special opportunity for the young people in our churches to engage in ministry at the same time as other Adventist youth around the world. Each year the world church’s Youth Department sets aside a Sabbath in the middle of March to focus on serving local communities. As young people minister to people’s needs and gain their confidence, they can also distribute large quantities of literature.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
To learn more about Global Youth Day, and for more youth ideas and resources, visit www.youth.adventist.org.

**A Book in Every Home**—While the Missionary Book of the Year is the special burden of Impact Day, there may be other books that your church might choose to distribute to every home in your territory at different times. For instance, many churches want to ensure that _The Great Controversy_ and _Steps to Christ_ are in every home. Others take advantage of holiday seasons, when many people’s hearts are more open to spiritual themes, to distribute relevant literature to everyone in their territories.

**Large Event Distribution**—This idea was given to us in the writings of Ellen White: “I was given instruction that as we approach the end, there will be large gatherings in our cities. . . . Leaflets containing the light of present truth should be scattered among the people like the leaves of autumn. To many who attend these gatherings these leaflets would be as the leaves of the tree of life, which are for the healing of the nations” (_Evangelism_, pp. 35, 36). Today our churches can mass-distribute “leaflets” such as GLOW tracts at large sporting, political, cultural, and religious gatherings.

**Community Literature Displays**—One excellent way to distribute literature is to set up displays in public places. These can vary in size from single displays holding multiple copies of one book to large racks holding a variety of titles. Whether owned by church members or other residents of the community, such sites as businesses, Laundromats, doctor’s offices, auto repair shops, grocery stores, libraries, and many other locations are perfectly suited for a small tract rack or literature stand. Ask members to sponsor a literature display, which involves finding a location that will allow the display and then making sure it is regularly stocked with literature. A simple sign or label stating “Free: Take One” should be affixed to the display. A similar method is to place newspaper boxes filled with Adventist newspapers or subscription magazines in strategic places in the city or town where there is heavy foot traffic—near city centers, shopping centers, mass transit exits, and sporting arenas.

**Fairs and Festivals**—Most communities have gatherings that draw large crowds and provide local organizations with the opportunity to sponsor tables or booths. Local churches should take advantage of this opportunity to bring awareness to the ways in which they serve their local communities. They can advertise health programs, children’s programs, Bible studies, and evangelistic events. They can also offer free items such as water and literature to everyone who stops by the booth.

**Literature Gift Bags**—A good project to get your more creative members involved is to make literature gift bags. Place a tract and a small item, such as a sweet treat, inside a small resealable bag. Include a designed note tag with a Bible verse and a creative saying that draws attention to the tract and gift inside. The note could say “May you feel the warmth of God’s love for you this winter—John 3:16” and be accompanied by an herbal tea bag and a tract on salvation. Another way you can share literature as a gift is to include a sharing book or other literature in a cellophane-wrapped gift basket along with other practical items. When literature is presented as a gift, it is often more readily received.

**Evangelistic Meetings**—Before a series of public evangelistic meetings, consider advertising with customized small tracts used in conjunction with other advertising methods. Then, during the meetings, a resource table can be set up to sell or give away literature that reinforces the messages being preached. Many people are greatly benefited by books that help them better understand the distinctive subjects presented at evangelistic meetings. These topical books are valuable tools for aiding interests in making decisions to believe and follow Bible truth.

**Church Departments**—Every department of the church should be encouraged to utilize literature in its ministries and events. Youth ministries and Pathfinders can harness the energy of the youth by adopting unentered territories to distribute books and tracts. Public campus ministries can strategically share books and tracts with classmates and staff and leave some behind in various places. Community services can maintain literature racks in their food and clothing centers and share books and tracts when doing acts of mercy. They can also distribute literature as part of the church’s annual Ingathering campaigns. Adventurers and children’s ministries can include literature when preparing care packages for local police and firefighters. These are just a few examples of how local church departments can prove true the words of Ellen White regarding literature ministry: “Here is missionary work for all” (_The Publishing Ministry_, p. 44).

**Magazine Subscriptions**—The Seventh-day Adventist Church produces a variety of outreach magazines focusing on different topics—spiritual, lifestyle, religious liberty, etc. Subscription magazines provide a _continual_ witness and reach into people’s homes. Encourage members to subscribe themselves first, then their families, friends, and neighbors. The church itself can sponsor subscriptions to inactive members, evangelistic interests, businesses that have waiting rooms, civic leaders, 
and prisons.

**Other Creative Ideas**—In addition to the projects and initiatives already mentioned, there are many other creative ways to distribute literature. You could share a musical talent on a busy street corner and distribute books to those who stop by, offer free books on public campuses, give books to members to mail to those on their Christmas card lists, visit public servants and civic leaders to give them sharing books and pray for them, or go into a busy downtown or mall and share books with business owners. The possibilities are endless.

**Follow-up**—Many churches view literature distribution as a single event. It is not uncommon for churches and their members to share literature without ever intending to follow up at a later date. Much is lost when this approach is taken. We should maintain regular contact with anyone who has shown an interest in truth-filled materials. A good follow-up plan will often include correspondence, invitations, and offers given to interests in both personal and digital forms.

#### Required for Mission

Every Seventh-day Adventist church has been called to be a light “on a hill” (Matthew 5:14) and to share the three angels’ messages “with a loud voice” (Revelation 14:7). This is accomplished not only through sharing the Word verbally, but also through the more subtle influence of literature: “The living preacher and the silent messenger are both required for the accomplishment of the great work before us” (_Colporteur Ministry_, p. 8).

> <callout></callout>
> “Golden opportunities occur almost daily.”

Most local churches have embraced evangelistic preaching in some form, but many have failed to recognize that literature ministry is also “required for the accomplishment of the great work before us.” If literature distribution projects were made a priority and members were trained to carry literature with them wherever they go, new opportunities would open before us: “Golden opportunities occur almost daily where the silent messengers of truth might be introduced into families and to individuals” (ibid., p. 84).

If you’re a pastor or local church ministry leader, remember that your role goes beyond your own missionary efforts. You have the privilege and responsibility of equipping church members for mission. Ellen White relates a story in which this role is made clear: “The owner of a large mill once found his superintendent [pastor or ministry leader] in a wheel-pit, making some simple repairs, while a half-dozen workmen [church members] in that line were standing by, idly looking on. The proprietor, after learning the facts, so as to be sure that no injustice was done, called the foreman [pastor or ministry leader] to his office and handed him his discharge with full pay. In surprise the foreman asked for an explanation. It was given in these words: ‘I employed you to keep six men at work. I found the six idle, and you doing the work of but one. Your work could have been done just as well by any one of the six. I cannot afford to pay the wages of seven for you to teach the six [church members] how to be idle’ ” (_Christian Service_, p. 70).

God has not raised up church leaders to teach the rest of the members how to be idle. But this is precisely what happens when they do all the work themselves instead of training and equipping church members for ministry. This is precisely why literature is so valuable to church leaders. It is one of the simplest and most effective ways to get church members involved in active evangelistic efforts.

May God use your literature ministry to help your church to experience total member involvement in mission. And as members engage in sharing literature, having been equipped “for the work of ministry” (see Ephesians 4:12), may their faith grow stronger and many souls be won to Christ.