---
title: Sabbath Afternoon
---

#### Introduction

What does it mean to be part of the church—the Body of Christ? This is our focus for this week. Paul makes a very direct statement: “Now you are the body of Christ, and each one of you is part of it” (1 Corinthians 12:27). We want to understand more of what this means. How does it affect how we relate with each other within the church? How does it shape the way we think and act?

The concept of a corporate body who are God’s people first appears in the story of Israel in Egypt (Exodus 3:7). Throughout the story of Abraham, God promised that He would make them a great nation. Then He called them out of Egypt and delivered them miraculously and led them into the Promised Land. God claimed them as His people, fulfilling His promise to Abraham. It is important to note that their identity as God’s people was based on divine action and calling, not on their performance. God’s gracious act made them His people.

Paul presented an extended comparison between Christian believers and Israel in Romans 9-11. He stated very clearly, “It is not the natural children who are God’s children, but it is the children of the promise who are regarded as Abraham’s offspring” (Romans 9:8, NIV). Scripture makes a transition from being God’s people in the Old Testament to being the Church in the New Testament. The focus is directly on the spiritual connection rather than biological descent. The church becomes the “Body of Christ” through His divine act. It carries His name because of His calling rather than human choice.

Paul then made a transition to the implications for how we live. Because we are the “Body of Christ,” our behavior will be transformed by our new identity. Who we are in Christ has a direct impact on our choices and actions. In fact, throughout all His writings, this becomes the motivating point for the daily Christian life. Our identity as part of “the Body” and our connection to Christ as the head of that “Body” transform our performance.

Throughout this week, we will explore how our new identity in Christ changes the way we look at and deal with each other as Christians. Jesus stated, “By this all men will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another” (John 13:35, NIV). We will treat each other differently because we are connected in Christ. We have a new identity as part of the “Body of Christ”— the Church.

This broad concept has serious implications for how we should think and behave. Our current culture emphasizes the “rights” of the individual. The biblical model of the church emphasizes the privilege and responsibility of being part of a greater entity—the Church. In a very real sense, when we become one with Christ, our identity changes. We are now part of His Body. We can no longer think of ourselves in isolation. Our perspective must change. We are a “new creation” (2 Corinthians 5:17). Part of that new creation is our connection to each other as part of the Body.

#### Objectives For This Week

Our purpose for this week is to better understand what it means to be part of God’s Church. Therefore we want to:

- Explore the meaning of the Church as the Body of Christ.
- Discover our new identity as members of the Body of Christ.
- Identify biblical ways of functioning as the Church.

#### Holy Habit—Meditation

The Holy Habit we want to highlight today is meditation. This is a common term in our world today. It can mean several different things. For our study we want to focus on biblical meditation. In this context it means focusing our minds and hearts on God by quieting our minds and using our imagination to focus on God and His Word. It is not emptying our minds or focusing on some universal “nothingness.” Instead it is filling our minds with God and His Word.

Narrative Meditation is the practice of purposefully controlling your imagination and focusing on a specific story from a consistent perspective in an attempt to experience as much of what happened in that story as possible.

The following points are helpful in narrative meditation:

- It is crucial that we control and guide the imagination. We never want to surrender our will or thought process to the imagination.
- Focus on a biblical story from the perspective of an observer or one of the story characters. Choose one of the characters and try to put yourself in that person’s place.
- Using the imagination to envision what the Bible character experienced.

What is important is that we get in touch with the story and it becomes real to us.

What is not important is that we see or experience everything in a story in the same way as someone else.

Note: Your experience will be unique to you because of your own background and personality.

The imagination is the primary tool in meditation. It is the most creative part of our minds. God gave us this tool to allow us to go beyond the limits of the routine of everyday life. However, the imagination needs to be informed and controlled.

Here are some key points to help us in guiding our imaginations:

1. Use your will to focus your thoughts.
2. Let past experience and knowledge inform your imagination.
3. Let Scripture control or provide the boundaries for your imagination.

Here are some helpful steps to guide us in meditation:

1. Start with prayer, asking the Holy Spirit to guide.
2. Read the story in the Bible and any background material you have.
3. Imagine you were present.
4. Try to see, hear, and feel the details.
5. Be true to the biblical facts.
6. Give yourself adequate time.
7. When finished with the meditation, pause to reflect on what you have experienced.
	- a. What new insights did you gain?
	- b. What feelings did you experience?
	- c. What new insights about God did you gain?
	- d. What can you apply to your life?

#### Suggested Prayer

Here is the suggested prayer to help us begin this week’s Steps to Discipleship study process:

_Dear Father in Heaven, I come to you recognizing my constant need for your presence in my life. I thank you for the many blessings you have given me. I especially thank you for the opportunity to be part of a spiritual family. Please help me understand what it means to be the Church as the Body of Christ. Help me learn to function as part of this Body. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

`List below what you want to accomplish in your discipleship walk with God this week:`