---
title: Sunday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Scripture uses several terms to describe the Church. The most common is the metaphor of the “Body of Christ.” We begin this week by studying what it means to be the Church.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear Lord, Help me in my walk with you today. Open my mind that I might understand what it means to be part of your Church. Give me a vision of what you want us to become. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse

Today we start learning memory verse #11. We will continue to follow the process we have been using for the last five weeks.

> 1 Corinthians 3:16 (NIV)—“Don’t you know that you yourselves are God’s temple and that God’s Spirit lives in you?”

> 1 Corinthians 3:16 (KJV)—“know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?”

#### Memory Verse Review

We also want to review two verses today. The first is #4 (1 John 5:13) from week 2. The second is #10 from last week (1 Peter 3:15). Choose one of the review verses and spend a few minutes in quiet reflection.

`What impressions come to your mind as you prayerfully think about this passage?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

It is time to open God’s Word and reflect on what He has to say about His Church.

`Read 1 Corinthians 3:9, 16-17—What does it mean for you, as part of the church, to be God’s temple? How can this make a difference in the way you will live today?`

`Read Ephesians 5:23-27— Compare this passage with Ephesians 4:11-16. What do these passages tell you about God’s goal for His Church?`

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:12-27—Especially notice verse 27. What points can we learn from these verses about how to live as God’s Church?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Loving God, Help me understand what it means to be part of the “Body of Christ.” Help me learn to function as part of this “Body.” Help me to walk with you throughout this day. Make my life a reflection of your love and presence. In Jesus’ name, Amen._