---
title: Monday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Understanding how we are connected to Christ as the Head of His Church and how the Church is built on Christ are the objectives of our study for today.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear Heavenly Father, I open my heart to you today. I seek to know you better. I want to understand more of what it means to be part of your Church. Help me to see Jesus as the foundation of this Church. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

We have two verses to review today, #8 (2 Peter 1:3-4) and our verse from yesterday #11 (1 Corinthians 3:16). Take a few minutes to review these two passages.

`Then reflect on them and make notes of how they can make a difference for your life today.`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

We will now turn to the Bible to explore Christ’s role in the Church. We especially want to understand the implications for how we function as a church.

`Read Matthew 16:13-19—Why is Jesus’ identity so important in this story? How is the confession that Jesus is the Christ the foundation for His Church?`

`What are the implications of the authority Jesus gives to His church in verse 19?`

`Read Ephesians 1:17-23—What does this passage tell us Paul wants for believers?`

`What does this passage tell us about Jesus and His relationship to the Church?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Almighty God and Father in Heaven, You have given us your Church. In fact, we are your Church. Thank you for the privilege of being part of the spiritual body of Christ. Help us live out the reality of our new identity in Christ. Help us submit to Jesus as Head of the Church. In Jesus’ name, Amen._