---
title: Tuesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today’s objective is to understand how being part of God’s Church connects us to each other. We want to begin to explore the implications for how we are to live as the Church.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear Loving Father, Help me be open to your presence today. Help me realize how much you want to be involved in my life. Thank you for your Church. Help me to know how to live as part of the “Body of Christ.” In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Today we want to review memory verse #5 (Proverbs 3:5-6) from week 3 and verse #11 (1 Corinthians 3:16) from this week.

`Pause and reflect on how the truths in these verses can make a difference in your life today.`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Once again, it is time to open God’s Word for study and reflection. Let’s seek to make this study an ongoing dialogue with God in prayer as we study and reflect on the following passages.

`Read Acts 2:41-47—What points from this passage speak to your heart today? What can you apply to your personal thinking about how we can function as a church?`

`Read Ephesians 2:11-22—Focus especially on verses 19-22. What do these verses tell us about our relationships within the church?`

`Read Ephesians 4:11-16—What does this passage tell us about God’s vision for His Church? What implications does it have for us today?`

`Read Hebrews 10:24-25—How can the points in these verses help guide us in our participation in church life?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Dear Lord and God, You have made me part of your Church. This can only be true as I stay connected to Christ, the Head of the Church. Help me walk with you throughout this day. Help me keep my mind focused on you throughout this day. Teach me to love others just as you love me. In Jesus’ name. Amen_