---
title: Wednesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our focus for today is on pointers from Scripture that will help us function together as God’s Church. We want to understand important principles for daily life in the Church.

#### Invitation Prayer

_God of Love, Take my life today and make it a place where you dwell. Transform my day with your presence and power. Teach me from your Word what it means to be part of your Church. Help me to contribute to your Church and not just take. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse

Today we begin learning memory verse #12. We will continue using the process we have for the last 5 weeks. Once again, write it out on a card you can take with you throughout the day.

> Galatians 6:1-2 (NIV)—“Brothers, if someone is caught in a sin, you who are spiritual should restore him gently. But watch yourself, or you also may be tempted. Carry each other’s burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ.”

> Galatians 6:1-2 (KJV)—“Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another’s burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ.”

#### Memory Verse Review

We also want to review memory verse #9 (2 Corinthians 5:18-19) from week 5. Spend a few minutes reflecting on the foundational points from this passage. What more does this tell you about your relationship with God, as well as His Church?

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Once more it is time to go to Scripture for our daily study and reflection. Ask God to give you insights as to how we can function as His Church.

`Read Romans 12:1-3 and 9-18—What key points do these verses teach us about relationships within the Church?`

`Read Matthew 5:23-24 and 18:15-18—What do these passages teach us about dealing with problems within the Church? What would happen if we put these principles to work?`

`Read Galatians 6:1-2—What can we learn from this passage about dealing with people who are struggling?`

`Who do you know that is struggling spiritually? List them here and include them in your prayers. Think of ways in which you can walk beside them in love.`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Almighty God, Teach me today to reach out to the weak. Walk beside me and help me love those around me. Transform my day and life with your presence. In Jesus’ name, Amen._