---
title: Thursday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our objective for today is to look at Jesus’ specific counsel about serving one another. We want to become more like Jesus in the way we relate to others in God’s Church.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear Lord, This is your Church. Help me to understand more of what it means to be a part of this Church. Guide my study today. Teach me to love and serve as Jesus’ did. In Jesus’ name. Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

We are reviewing the two verses from this week, #11 (1 Corinthians 3:16) and verse #12 (Galatians 6:1-2).

`Spend a few minutes reflecting on additional points you have learned from these passages.`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

We want to open our minds to God’s Word as we go deeper in our study and reflection for today.

`Read John 13:1-17—What does this story teach you about your role in the Church? How can Jesus’ model shape your life and ministry?`

`Read Mark 10:35-44—Use your imagination to place yourself in this story. In what ways can you identify with James and John here?`

`What insights from verses 42-44 are especially meaningful to you, and why?`

`Read Luke 9:46-48—How would you define true greatness within the family of God in light of this passage?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_God and Father of all, Transform my day with your presence. Teach me that true greatness comes in following Jesus in a life of service. Help me change the way I see others. Open my life and love others through me today. In Jesus’ name, Amen._