---
title: Friday
---

#### Today’s Objective

As members of God’s Church, we are part of a larger body. We cannot live in isolation from those around us. Today’s study takes us deeper in understanding our responsibility in working with others.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Almighty God, Teach me to live as Jesus lived. Help me to understand who I am as part of your Church. Help me learn what it means to submit. I know it will not be easy. So I ask for your help and divine strength. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Today we review memory verse #12 (Galatians 6:1-2).

`Spend a few minutes reflecting on how the points from this passage can become more a part of your life.`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

It is now time to open your Bible and explore a deeper dimension of your relationship with God and His Church. Ask God for special wisdom as you study the subject of today.

`Read 1 Peter 2:4-5 and 9-10—What do these verses teach you about who you are in Christ? What is your role in this process? What is God’s role?`

`Read Ephesians 5:15-21—What do you think God wants you to learn from these verses?`

`Read Romans 14:1, 7-8—What can you learn from these verses? How could this change the way you relate with others in the Church?`

`Read Romans 14:13-15, 19—What are the implications of these verses for your life?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Loving Lord, Help me to understand my responsibility in working with others. Help me submit my desires and preferences to the needs of others and to you as Lord. Walk with me through this day. Teach me with your presence. In Jesus’ name, Amen._