---
title: Self-control
subtitle: Week 7
---

Just one more piece of cake, one more movie, one more new outfit. Having the ability to stop yourself from indulging in more is self-control. We need this, and we also need to teach our children to have this character trait, for we’re told, “The first lesson to be taught them is self-control; for no undisciplined, headstrong person can hope for success in this world or reward in the next” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 91).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ Have you ever met a successful person who doesn’t have self-control? What are they like?
+ Why is self-control such an important character trait to grow in our children?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Silent Reflection

+ As a parent, do you have good self-control, or is it an area God is refining in your life?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore and Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

Read and discuss the questions relating to each proverb.

“Like a city whose walls are broken through is a person who lacks self-control” (Proverbs 25:28, NIV).

+ What does this look like in the home?

“He who is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city” (Proverbs 16:32).

+ What does this look like in the home?

“He who guards his mouth preserves his life, but he who opens wide his lips shall have destruction” (Proverbs 13:3).

+ Is it harder to guard your mouth or talk freely?
+ Why is this an important proverb to remember when it comes to parenting?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect and Note

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Underline key ideas in the following quotes, then write one summary word beside each one.

> “The little ones, before they are a year old, hear and understand what is spoken in reference to themselves, and know to what extent they are to be indulged…Your children quickly learn just what you expect of them, they know when their will conquers yours, and will make the most of their victory” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 91).

> “One precious lesson which the mother will need to repeat again and again is that the child is not to rule; he is not the master, but her will and her wishes are to be supreme. Thus she is teaching them self-control. Give them nothing for which they cry, even if your tender heart desires ever so much to do this; for if they gain the victory once by crying they will expect to do it again. The second time the battle will be more vehement” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 92).

> “Some parents have no control over themselves. They do not control their own morbid appetites or their passionate temper; therefore they cannot educate their children in regard to the denial of their appetite, and teach them self-control” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 94).

> “Never should we lose control of ourselves … We are to walk worthy, giving a right representation of Christ. The speaking of an angry word is like flint striking flint: it at once kindles wrathful feelings” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 95).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-04-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Pray for each other and for your children—that God will give you\
self-control in areas of weakness, and that He will guard your\
mouths and thoughts. Pray for wisdom in knowing how to\
instill self-control in your growing baby. 

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

This week, for a deeper look at the importance of self-control in the home, read chapter 13 of _Child Guidance_. Spend some time in personal prayer about this important topic.