---
title: Breaking Through the Preoccupational Barrier
---

To get someone to listen, we must break through his/her preoccupational barrier by using the emotional appeal that fits. How is that done?

By listening carefully and watching the person’s actions to discern his/her motives. “Out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks” (Luke 6:45, RSV).

By observation you can tell which one or ones of the four are the big one or two in the category of interest. Then appeal to the person within that same area.

Remember that all of them are in all of us but one or two will be the key to the heart. “We all need to study character and manner that we may know how to deal judiciously with different minds, that we may use our best endeavors to help them. . . .”<sup>27</sup>

Study the four until you can automatically categorize people. Your appeal can then be based on the following general suggestions:

1. **Self preservation**: The Bible promises eternal life, health, joy, happiness, peace, and love.
2. **Money**: The Bible promises riches, prosperity, financial success, and treasures in heaven. In heaven we’ll be richer than any man on earth has ever been.
3. **Romance**: The Bible promises love that never changes, a new life and new experiences.
4. **Recognition**: The Bible promises honor, success, superiority, courage, the approval of the God of the universe, to actually sit with Him on His throne (Revelation 3:21) and to shine as the stars throughout eternity (Daniel 12:3).

Apply the Word to the person’s interests. That is what Jesus did. When He met a woman whose biggest interest was romance and whose second emotional appeal was self preservation, this is how He acted: “As Jesus spoke of the living water, the woman looked upon Him with wondering attention. He had aroused her interest, and awakened a desire for the gift of which He spoke.”<sup>28</sup> Jesus appealed to her curiosity (romance) and offered her eternal life (self preservation). Immediately He broke her preoccupation and entered her heart.

One lady who had just been presented with the Sabbath truth mentioned that she would feel very odd walking to church on Saturdays. This statement revealed to her teacher her “recognition” desires and gave him the key to her heart. He immediately appealed to her with a “recognition” emotional appeal. He told her kindly that first class people do not respond to what others think, but only to what God thinks. She proved she was a first class person by attending services the following Sabbath. Remember, “God’s plan is first to get to the heart.”<sup>29</sup>

Building your appeal on your student’s preoccupation interest brings success in reaching the heart and in gaining decisions.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>27</sup> Testimonies, vol. 4, p. 69.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>28</sup> The Desire of Ages, p. 187.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>29</sup> Testimonies, vol. 6, p. 400.