---
title: Why Media Ministry?
subtitle: Chapter 10
---

We live at a time when many people “visit” a church online before they actually visit the church in person. They want to learn about it from a distance before taking the risk of being seen there. The impression received through the church’s online presence will determine whether they want to engage further or not. All over the world God is using websites, online Bible studies, podcasts, social media, and more to reach people with His saving message. Maximizing these and other media tools will allow more seeds to be scattered for a more abundant harvest. Any church that takes the gospel commission seriously in a digital age will take digital evangelism seriously.

Especially is this true since the year 2020, when the novel coronavirus known as COVID-19 became a global pandemic in only a few short months. All over the world people were instructed to stay home, self-quarantine, shelter in place, and practice “social distancing.” Restaurants and businesses closed their doors, and church congregations stopped gathering for corporate worship. Local churches and their members were forced to stay connected through video conferencing and to find new ways of reaching out to their communities. Sabbath School, church, vespers, Bible studies, and evangelistic meetings were streamed over the Internet and social media.

While most churches would not normally have engaged so actively in online ministries, there were positive results from doing so. Many church members who had resisted learning about technology became quite proficient at using it during the pandemic. Church services and evangelistic events became more accessible to visitors and to people who didn’t live close by to the physical building. The use of Zoom and other video conferencing services often led to higher attendance because of convenience of use. Though connecting through technology can never fully replace the need for in-person contact, it has proven to be a powerful, inexpensive, and efficient communication tool for ministry. If we didn’t realize it before, we now know that the vital role of technology and digital media in the mission of the church is here to stay.

#### The Language of the People

Every generation has needed believers who would herald the gospel in the language of the people. Before the dawn of the Protestant Reformation, people were starving to hear the Word of God taught in their own language. Medieval clergy conducted religious services in Latin, a language not understood by the common people. The only Bibles that could be accessed legally were stored in secluded monasteries or libraries, and these Bibles were in the unknown tongue of Latin or the original languages of Greek and Hebrew. Then came the Reformation, which inspired a growing number of Bible translations in the various languages of the people across Europe. Once the common people could read the Bible in their own languages, they gained the courage to exercise freedom of thought and religion. God’s Word published in the native tongue dispelled ignorant traditions and motivated people from all classes to put their faith in God instead of humankind.

> <callout></callout>
> Digital media has the potential to fuel the spread of the three angels’ messages.

Johannes Gutenberg’s invention of the printing press in the middle of the fifteenth century made it possible for Bible translations to be published in large quantities for the first time. Before the printing press, books were copied by hand. Now they could be mass-produced by machine. Multitudes of people began learning the Bible for themselves. Papers and books went places before the preachers arrived, and stayed long after they left. These publications, combined with the personal touch of preachers and teachers, altered the course of history. Millions paid attention and began thinking for themselves. Since that time, the door has continued to open wide for the gospel. Many more Bible translations have been completed, hundreds of commentaries made available, and wide varieties of study tools developed.

#### Every Possible Means

Today digital media has the potential to fuel the spread of the three angels’ messages just as the printing press fueled the spread of the Protestant Reformation centuries ago. Seventh-day Adventists stand as successors of the Protestant Reformation. We continue an aggressive work to spread the truth of God’s Word in languages the people can understand.

Adventists have a long history of utilizing innovative ways of spreading the truth: “[The members] are to go forth into the highways and byways of life to win souls for Him, using every possible means to make the truth appear in its true character before the world” (_Medical Ministry_, p. 318). While the same beautiful message needs to be given to every culture and every generation, the language and methods may change. A quick review of Adventist history shows the creativity and diligence of our pioneers to get their message to the masses.

Early Adventist preachers utilized the best visual aids available for teaching. The “1843 chart” traveled everywhere with Adventist evangelists, visually explaining to audiences the beasts and time prophecies of Daniel and Revelation. Charles Fitch set up a large carved image of the Daniel 2 statue to interest the audiences coming to his tent. Other evangelists used impressive papier-mâché replicas of the beasts of Daniel and Revelation (see _Evangelism_, p. 204). Adventists captured the attention of large crowds with their preaching and creative displays.

> <callout></callout>
> Methods of teaching and communication. . . were to be adapted for our own use.

Throughout her ministry Ellen White urged church members and leaders to continually advance their methods of communicating truth: “Our Sabbath schools should be made more interesting. The public schools have of late years greatly improved their methods of teaching. Object lessons, pictures, and blackboards are used to make difficult lessons clear to the youthful mind. Just so may present truth be simplified and made intensely interesting to the active minds of children” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 4, pp. 69, 70). Using a blackboard may not sound very advanced today, but there was a time when it was an innovative new method. Ellen White advocated such methods to make our Sabbath Schools “intensely interesting.”

She did not intend that the church would be the innovator of every new technique, but that it would not fail to harness the successful practices used by others. “The modes of teaching which have been adopted with such success in the public schools could be employed with similar results in the Sabbath schools and be the means of bringing children to Jesus and educating them in Bible truth” (ibid., p. 70). Methods of teaching and communication used successfully by others were to be adapted for our own use. Adventist leaders such as Ellen White would be the first to encourage the creative use of technology for communicating Bible truth.

This doesn’t mean, however, that we must embrace every style and tone of communication that is popular in our culture today. Sensational messages and headlines, brash personalities, and excessively stimulating or dramatic productions may garner the most attention, but that doesn’t mean they are the best way to lift up Christ. Jesus Himself used a variety of approaches in sharing the gospel, but He avoided any method that would detract from the sacredness of His message: “We are to keep as far from the theatrical and the extraordinary as Christ kept in His work” (_Evangelism_, p. 396). We should tread carefully and not allow our methods of ministry to take on a worldly mold.

Yet while demonstrating great discernment, it is still imperative for the church to study how to utilize current forms of communication. If the language of the people includes blackboards, we should use blackboards. If it includes radio and social media, we should make wise use of radio and social media. This is no time to discontinue the Protestant tradition of translating the message into the language of the people and using every means possible to spread it.

#### Adventist Media

Throughout the history of technological advancement, Adventists have used every major tool of communication as it has become available. Our success with radio and television ministry should invigorate us to keep pace with the rapidly changing landscape of digital media. Consider this brief history of how the Adventist Church has used media for mission:

**Radio**—The invention of radio allowed for previously unimagined transmission of the gospel. One of the first Adventist voices to give our message on radio was H.M.S. Richards on the Voice of Prophecy broadcast. Today Adventist World Radio and other ministries broadcast the three angels’ messages in various languages all over the world. Shortwave radios broadcast the gospel into closed countries where groups listen in secret lest they be discovered and punished. Radio has indeed proved to be an enduring mode of communication. Today people are still responding to messages, visiting churches, and choosing to be baptized wherever radio is used to broadcast 
the Adventist message.

**Television**—Soon after television was introduced, Faith for Today, It Is Written, and other media ministries produced television programs. Hope Channel and 3ABN later launched dedicated channels with 24-hour broadcasts. Many television ministries have started in countries around the world with programs in local languages. As with other media ministries, television is done best when strategies are pursued to develop relationships with the audience. This is done with book offers, telephone prayer lines, Bible study offers, fundraisers, and other calls to action that engage the audience.

**Bible Correspondence Schools**—Radio and television ministries soon began promoting Bible correspondence schools that allowed students to complete Bible studies through the mail. Some media ministries developed systems for local churches to run their own Bible correspondence schools. These schools connected the television and radio interests with someone local. Media ministry is always incomplete without intentional efforts to develop a personal connection with people.

**Audio and Video Recordings**—In addition to benefiting the mission field, new recording technologies advanced the ministries of local churches. Even small congregations began recording and duplicating their messages using cassette tapes, followed by CDs and DVDs. The ability to record and share sermons from the local church has opened a fruitful opportunity for personal ministries that continues today.

**Portable Media Players**—The invention of digital media players opened the door for the wide distribution of God’s Word in dialects without a written language. For the first time, primitive people groups listened to the Bible and heard biblical messages preached in their own languages from these small devices. This is one more way Adventists have carried the mantle of Protestant 
Reformers in making the Bible available in the common languages of the people.

**Presentation Technology**—The advancement of electronic technology opened the door for updated visual aids that would be used with great success. For years Adventist pastors and laypeople used carousel film slide projectors to show pictures and illustrations of prophetic imagery. The invention of computers led to digital presentation software such as PowerPoint and Keynote, making the use of visual aids easier than ever before. Today it’s hard to imagine an Adventist evangelistic series without a multimedia presentation.

#### Into the Digital Age

The vision to utilize every conceivable tool to publish and broadcast our message as far and as widely as possible has never died. The current generation has more possibilities than ever before for spreading our message through digital media. This is an opportunity the church can’t afford to miss. The rich history of Adventist media evangelism, mingled with the sober reality of Jesus’ soon return, should motivate every one of us to take this ministry seriously: “Let every worker in the Master’s vineyard study, plan, devise methods, to reach the people where they are. We must do something out of the common course of things. We must arrest the attention. We must be deadly in earnest. We are on the very verge of times of trouble and perplexities that are scarcely dreamed of” (_Evangelism_, pp. 122, 123). We need to plead for the Holy Spirit to guide us into strategies that God can bless beyond our expectations.

Media ministry is needed to reach the unreached. Consider the story of Nancy, who in 2015 stumbled upon a broadcast of It Is Written Canada while flipping through the channels on her television. She had suffered from depression for many years and, as she would later explain, had actually made the decision to end her life that day. She had tried a variety of medications and other therapies before finally giving up. But the Lord used media ministry to rescue her. She found a program that day on the topic of depression and anxiety. She was drawn in by the presentation, and a spark of hope was born inside her. She changed her mind about ending her life. She continued watching the series and began to implement the things she learned. Her interest soon bridged to spiritual things, and she wrote to the It Is Written Canada office to express her thankfulness for the light she could now see at the end of the tunnel.

Many more people in this dark and dying world need to see the light of hope in Jesus Christ. Today, more than ever before, we need zealous Adventist missionaries who will keep pace with the rapidly changing landscape of media technology for the purpose of mission. It will require great creativity and discernment to adopt and adapt the most effective methods. Yet the gospel must be “preached in all the world as a witness to all the nations” (Matthew 24:14) before the end will come. It must go to “every nation, tribe, tongue, and people” (Revelation 14:6). To a great degree, advancements in media and technology have made this possible as never before. In the tradition of the Reformers and our Adventist pioneers, we must take advantage of every means possible to spread the hope of salvation to the world.