---
title: Ministry Starts at Home
date: 27/04/2025
---

_Pamela Consuegra, PhD_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> "To Titus, a true son in our common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Savior. For this reason I left you in Crte, that you should set in order the things that are lacking, and appoint elders in every city as I commanded you— if a man is blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of dissipation or insubordination." (Titus 1:4-6 NKJV)

### Observation

**_Titus._** Titus is not mentioned in the book of Acts. A few facts concerning him may be gathered from incidental references in the Pauline epistles. He was a Gentile Christian (Gal. 2:3), possibly a convert of Paul (Titus 1:4). He is first mentioned as accompanying Paul from Antioch to Jerusalem for the Jerusalem Council (Gal. 2:1–3; cf. Acts 14:26–28; 15:1–4); hence it is sometimes conjectured that he was a native of Antioch. Later he is associated with Paul during part of the apostle’s Third Missionary Journey (2 Cor. 2:13; 7:6, 13). The epistle to Titus informs us that he was left in Crete to set certain things in order and to organize churches there (ch. 1:5). The Cretan service was only temporary, for Titus was requested to join Paul at Nicopolis (ch. 3:12). Titus is last mentioned in 2 Tim. 4:10, where he is said to have gone to Dalmatia. [_The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, Volume 7_. 1980 (F. D. Nichol, Ed.) (359). Review and Herald Publishing Association.]

### Application

It is interesting to note that Paul, when stating the qualifications for deacons and elders in the early church, started on the home front. He did not make a high standing in the community, or elevated position on the career ladder as a qualifier. Instead, of far greater importance was what was happening behind the closed doors of the home. What were the relationships like within the home walls? What words described the husband/wife relationship? Were the children expected to be obedient? In essence, was the home a faithful witness of Jesus to others?

I wonder if we have failed to realize that our homes are indeed major centers of evangelism. Evangelistic opportunities abound. And, what happens outside the church often speaks louder of Jesus than what happens behind the pulpit. Others are watching us. They see our interactions with family members in the grocery store, at the gas station, and in restaurants. They notice as our family takes the time to hold hands, bow heads, and say a prayer of thanksgiving in the restaurant. They see the husband open the door for his wife in the parking lot. And, they hear the tone of our voices as we speak to our little ones.

What message are we telling the world through our families? Would our homes stand up to this test? Do your neighbors know that Jesus is the center of your home? Jesus should not be a hidden guest in our homes. He should have a place of honor. He should be invited to go with our families wherever we go. Others should see Him as we reflect Him in our homes and family interactions.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Dear Lord, may my home be an evangelistic center. may my neighbors, friends, and family members see You. May it testify of Your mercy, Your love, Your forgiveness, and Your grace. In Jesus' name, Amen.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._