---
title: God Rewards Faithfulness
date: 19/07/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “But he who did not know, yet committed things deserving of stripes, shall be beaten with few. For everyone to whom much is given, from him much will be required; and to whom much has been committed, of him they will ask the more.” –Luke 12:48

Fabian’s friends tried to dissuade him from giving. One of them said, “Why can’t you give a small fraction of it? God knows that you are a student and need money. When you begin to work, then you can give God more money, not now. Keep some of the money for yourself.” Fabian disagreed and joyfully took the money to church the following day.

Unfortunately, Fabian fell ill shortly afterward and was rushed to the hospital on a stretcher by his friends. Upon examination, the medical personnel could not identify the cause of his suffering. As Fabian was being examined, the doctor explained that he was probably suffering from examination stress. Given Fabian’s academic record as an A student, this explanation did not sound plausible to his friends.

Fabian continued to struggle with the illness, often unable to study due to the pain. At times, he even contemplated giving up studying, convinced that he might die before taking the examination or before the results were available. Despite these challenges, he continued attending school whenever his health allowed, studying during those intervals when the pain subsided.

When exam time arrived, Fabian was surprised to find that the questions came from the areas he had focused on in his studies. As a result, he passed with flying colors and was among the top students in his class who were accepted at the only university in his country. God repaid his faithfulness. He did not pay him back in monetary form, but made it possible for him to succeed academically.

### Appeal

God rewards faithfulness. He will never forget our faithful acts. The reward may be delayed and probably not received in this life, but it will surely be given. Let us therefore give cheerfully our tithe and offerings, knowing that God rewards faithfulness.