---
title: Why Literature Ministry?
subtitle: Chapter 7
---

God was the author and publisher, Moses was the literature evangelist, and the Israelites were the recipients of God’s first written message. We might call it the beginning of the Lord’s own literature ministry: “And when He had made an end of speaking with him on Mount Sinai, He gave Moses two tablets of the Testimony, tablets of stone, written with the finger of God” (Exodus 31:18). God used tables of stone to engrave the moral law of love, the Ten Commandments, with His own finger.

Through the centuries God inspired prophets to write His messages to humanity on ancient scrolls: “All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work” (2 Timothy 3:16, 17). The focus and purpose of these writings, though not always understood, was made clear by Jesus: “For if you believed Moses, you would believe Me; for he wrote about Me” (John 5:46). “You search the Scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life; and these are they which testify of Me. But you are not willing to come to Me that you may have life” (verses 39, 40). The written Word was to reveal to humanity the living Word, Jesus Christ, and to invite us to find salvation in Him.

#### The Gift of Printing

The enemy of souls has always fought to keep people from finding salvation through Christ. Thus he has sought to hide or obscure the truth in all its forms: “The Bible would exalt God and place finite men in their true position; therefore its sacred truths must be concealed and suppressed” (_The Great Controversy_, p. 51). During the Middle Ages Satan sought to restrict access to the Bible by common men and women so they couldn’t read and study it for themselves. The lament of Samuel the prophet so many years prior was indeed applicable to that time also: “And the word of the Lord was rare in those days” (1 Samuel 3:1).

Yet God always cared for His people. In every era He raised up men and women who would champion the sharing of God’s Word in printed form. Such were the Waldenses, believers living in the pre-Reformation era. Here was the method they employed to share Scripture: “Their garments were so prepared as to conceal their greatest treasure—the precious manuscripts of the Scriptures. These, the fruit of months and years of toil, they carried with them, and whenever they could do so without exciting suspicion, they cautiously placed some portion in the way of those whose hearts seemed open to receive the truth” (ibid., p. 70). Many of these “smugglers of faith” sacrificed their lives to share God’s Word in written form.

In addition to the Bible itself, God has also used writings that share and clarify the teachings of the Bible. We know that the Czech Reformer John Huss, for instance, was impacted greatly by the writings of English Reformer John Wycliffe: “These works Huss read with interest; he believed their author to be a sincere Christian and was inclined to regard with favor the reforms which he advocated. Already, though he knew it not, Huss had entered upon a path which was to lead him far away from Rome” (ibid., p. 99).

About a half century later, in the mid-1400s, the world would encounter an invention that would illuminate the earth with gospel literature as never before. Many would finally experience the words of the psalmist: “Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path” (Psalm 119:105). The inventor was Johannes Gutenberg, a German blacksmith, and the invention was a movable-type printing press. The printing revolution that followed contributed mightily to the spread of Reformation teachings throughout Europe. A famous quote attributed to Martin Luther, the well-known German Reformer, beautifully expresses the importance of Gutenberg’s invention: “Printing is the ultimate gift of God and the greatest one.”

#### Streams of Light

In the early 1800s North America and other parts of the world experienced a spiritual awakening. In preparation for the proclamation of the soon return of Christ in 1844, God was laying a foundation for His message to be received. Bibles were placed in the hands of the people in their own languages through the work of Bible societies, established for the translation and distribution of Bibles.

The Millerite movement consisted not only of preaching but also the widespread distribution of pertinent literature whenever opportunities allowed. “Before the great disappointment of October 22, 1844, eight million copies of Adventist literature found the people and spread the word” (C. Mervyn Maxwell, _Tell It to the World_, p. 18).

When studying the history of the Seventh-day Adventist movement, one cannot help seeing the impact literature has made on the development of the church. Many regions of the world were first reached by the printed page, and many have seen their memberships strengthened and increased as a result of the publications distributed, read, and studied in their territories.

> <callout></callout>
> The distribution of literature will prepare people for the Second Coming.

Ellen White wrote: “Our publishing work was established by the direction of God and under His special supervision. It was designed to accomplish a specific purpose” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 7, p. 138). It was God who directed our church in the start of its publishing ministry and established the specific goals literature would achieve. She continued: “The publications sent forth from our printing houses are to prepare a people to meet God” (ibid., p. 139). God inaugurated the publishing work so the world could be prepared for Christ’s imminent return. “Throughout the world they are to do the same work that was done by John the Baptist for the Jewish nation” (ibid.). What a profound thought! The distribution of literature will prepare people for the Second Coming, just as John the Baptist prepared people for Christ’s first coming.

In 1848 Ellen White had a vision about the future publishing work. She related the message to her husband, James White, urging him to start publishing a short periodical. She remarked, “From this small beginning it was shown to me to be like streams of light that went clear round the world” (_Life Sketches of Ellen G. White_, p. 125). Ellen White would later see her husband publish that little paper, now fully assured by her prophetic vision that future generations of faithful Adventist believers would carry the publishing torch forward. With the flame of mission burning in their hearts, more and more literature would be printed and distributed, giving light to our darkened world.

The key to embracing the role of literature in our day is never to forget the original purpose and plan of God for the publishing work: “We have nothing to fear for the future, except as we shall forget the way the Lord has led us, and His teaching in our past history” (ibid., p. 196).

#### The Future of Literature

No one denies that literature has been a powerful instrument for good in the past, but what about in today’s digital age? What is the future of the church’s literature ministry? Are ebooks taking over? Should we expect the demise of printed literature? Contrary to the expectations of many people, the dawn of electronic media has not replaced the demand for literature. Printed books are proving to be timeless, holding their popularity even among younger generations. Ellen White’s words concerning the importance of literature still ring true today: “Were it not for the work of the canvasser, many would never hear the truth” (_Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers_, p. 316). And again: “Many minds can be reached in no other way” (_Evangelism_, p. 160).

Perhaps in the past people didn’t have access to information unless someone brought it to them. But today, especially since the dawn of the Internet, access is not the primary issue in most areas of the world. The challenge we face now is how to capture people’s attention in the midst of an overabundance of information. While the need may be different, the vital role of literature remains the same.

A gift of relevant literature, given by a kind and caring person, is often just what is needed in order for a life-or-death message to be truly considered. When we hand someone information in the form of a piece of literature, we increase its visibility and make it more likely to be read. “Our books and papers are to be brought before the notice of the people” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 9, p. 63). “In the work of scattering our publications, we can speak of the Savior’s love from a warm and throbbing heart” (ibid.). Bringing literature to the notice of others, especially when combined with a personal touch, will greatly increase the chances that they will consider Bible truth.

#### The Purpose and Power of Literature

To say that Ellen White was a strong advocate for literature ministry would be an understatement: “If there is one work more important than another, it is that of getting our publications before the public, thus leading them to search the Scriptures” (_Christian Service_, p. 145). The prophetic voice to the remnant church could be heard again and again, signaling the importance of this vital ministry. Ellen White was certain that if Seventh-day Adventist church members could see the essential role of literature in fulfilling our end-time mission, many more would get involved in its distribution: “When church members realize the importance of the circulation of our literature, they will devote more time to this work” (_Colporteur Ministry_, p. 7). Now consider the following inspired explanations of the purpose and power of literature, making clear why an active literature ministry should be an integral part of the evangelistic strategy of every local church:

**Literature Brings Souls to Christ**—“Our publications are now sowing the gospel seed, and are instrumental in bringing as many souls to Christ as the preached word. Whole churches have been raised up as the result of their circulation” (_Christian Service_, p. 146).

**Literature Prepares the Way for Mass Conversions**—“More than one thousand will soon be converted in one day, most of whom will trace their first convictions to the reading of our publications” (_Evangelism_, p. 693).

**Literature Prepares People to Meet God**—“The publications sent forth from our printing houses are to prepare a people to meet God. Throughout the world they are to do the same work that was done by John the Baptist for the Jewish nation. By startling messages of warning, God’s prophet awakened men from worldly dreaming. Through him God called backsliding Israel to repentance. . . . ‘Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand’ was John’s message. Matthew 3:2. This same message, through the publications from our printing houses, is to be given to the world today” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 7, p. 139).

**Literature Lightens the Earth at the End of Time**—“In a large degree through our publishing houses is to be accomplished the work of that other angel [Revelation 18] who comes down from heaven with great power and who lightens the earth with his glory” (ibid., p. 140).

**Literature Spreads the Truth Quickly**—“The book work should be the means of quickly giving the sacred light of present truth to the world” (ibid., vol. 9, p. 69).

**Literature Breaks Down Walls of Prejudice**—“I have been shown that the publications already have been doing a work upon some minds in other countries, in breaking down the walls of prejudice and superstition” (_Life Sketches of Ellen G. White_, p. 214).

**Literature Can Go Where Ministers Can’t**—“There are many places in which the voice of the minister cannot be heard, places which can be reached only by our publications—the books, papers, and tracts filled with the Bible truths that the people need” (_Christian Service_, p. 153).

**Literature Can Get Around Pride**—“If you do not succeed by personal visits, try sending them the silent messenger of truth. There is so much pride of opinion in the human heart that our publications often gain admittance where the living messenger cannot” (_Evangelism_, p. 411).

**Literature Is Equal in Importance to Preaching**—“The importance of this work is fully equal to that of the ministry. The living preacher and the silent messenger are both required for the accomplishment of the great work before us” (_Colporteur Ministry_, p. 8.)

**Literature Is Used by Angels to Impress Minds**—“I was shown men and women studying with intense interest papers and a few pages of tracts upon present truth. They would read the evidences so wonderful and new to them, and would open their Bibles with a deep and new interest, as subjects of truth that had been dark to them were made plain, especially the light in regard to the Sabbath of the fourth commandment. As they searched the Scriptures to see if these things were so, a new light shone upon their understanding, for angels were hovering over them, and impressing their minds with the truths 
contained in the publications they had been reading” (_Christian Service_, pp. 149, 150).

**Literature Nurtures Faith and a Missionary Spirit**—“The Lord is calling upon His people to continue with courage and faith their work of circulating the printed page. Every church should seek for a revival of the missionary spirit” (_Review and Herald_, November 5, 1914).

**Literature Equips for Total Member Involvement**—“Tracts, papers, and books, as the case demands, should be circulated in all the cities and villages in the land. Here is missionary work for all to engage in” (Counsels on Health, p. 466).

In 2012 Seventh-day Adventist world church leadership was placing a great emphasis on the distribution of the book _The Great Controversy_. After prayerful consideration, a local church in Hagerstown, Maryland, decided to set the lofty goal of placing a book in every home in its territory. The church purchased 40,000 books, enough for every home, and the decision was made to deliver each book personally. Several dates would be needed for distribution. The excitement over this endeavor not only brought the church together but attracted members from surrounding churches who came to be part of the ambitious effort. Everyone divided into groups, and each group was sent out with a map and the number of books needed to distribute to the homes in a particular territory.

Many stories could be told of how God blessed those efforts. One such story involves Mark Thomas, who was president of the Review and Herald Publishing Association at the time. While actively involved in the door-to-door distribution, he came to a home where the owner was outside working in his yard. This man was an atheist, bitter against God, and poked fun at these Christians distributing literature. Yet as Mark and this man began to engage in conversation, the man shared about a terrible loss he had suffered. Soon he was in tears. With a gentle spirit Mark began ministering to the man, and soon Mark and his group were offering to pray with him. The man accepted the offer and was moved to tears again through the compassion he felt. He now asked for the book that was being distributed! Later that same day Mark returned with a book that would minister to the man’s specific circumstances. Over the years many individuals have come through the doors of the Hagerstown church owing in large part to the seeds of literature that had been planted in their homes.

#### Motivation for Mission

There are many reasons for local churches and their members to be more intentional and active in distributing literature. In addition to the inspired counsel encouraging us to do so, there are countless real-life stories that could and should be told of people finding God and Bible truth through Adventist literature. Now is the time to embrace this ministry with the same level of enthusiasm and sacrifice as our early Adventist pioneers, many of whom dedicated their lives to writing, printing, funding, and distributing literature. Leaders at every level of the church should aim to help God’s people experience a renewed interest in literature ministry. This they can do by giving greater priority to participating in, promoting, training for, and investing financially in this seed-sowing outreach.

But Seventh-day Adventist church members don’t need to rely upon others to motivate them to share literature. Simply reading our literature is enough to rediscover the power of the truth and be motivated to share it. Members who read truth-filled literature grow closer to Christ and feel compelled to share the incredible blessings they’ve received. Then, in passing that literature along, they receive a second blessing. There is a mysterious but undeniably positive impact that sharing the gospel has on our own spiritual condition. “There are many who would work if urged into service, and who would save their souls by thus working” (_Gospel Workers_, p. 82).

Ellen White once related the story of a man who was traveling through a winter blizzard. As he walked through the deep, drifting snow, he was getting cold and weak. Just as he contemplated giving up and succumbing to his exhaustion and the frigid conditions, he heard a cry for help. Stirred with sympathy, he mustered all his energy to reach the fellow traveler and help him through the same drifts of snow that he had once doubted he could get through alone. Ellen White highlights the critical lesson discovered by the brave man: “When he had borne his fellow traveler to a place of safety, the truth flashed home to him that in saving his neighbor he had saved himself also” (_Christian Service_, pp. 92, 93). So it is with us. In helping others to discover Christ and salvation, we will help ourselves, too. May God bless you as you utilize the power of literature to bear others safely to the Savior.