---
title: The Fruit of Abiding in Jesus
date: 08/06/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> Abide in Me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in Me. John 15:4

### Observation

The only way to continue “clean” (pruned) and to bear fruit is to maintain vital spiritual connexion with Christ (the vine). Of itself. As source (from itself) and apart from the vine (cf. 17:17). Except it abide. [Robertson, A. (1933). Word Pictures in the New Testament. Nashville, TN: Broadman Press.]

### Application

Being a member of a church does not guarantee that we will behave properly all the time. It does not guarantee that we will have the best of relationships. It does not guarantee that all will go well for us. However, having a close relationship with Jesus does guarantee that we will be different, act and talk differently, and that our relationships will be healthier.

Ellen White made this interesting statement: “In your business, in companionship for leisure hours, and in alliance for life, let all the associations you form be entered upon with earnest, humble prayer. You will thus show that you honor God, and God will honor you. Pray when you are fainthearted. When you are desponding, close the lips firmly to men; do not shadow the path of others; but tell everything to Jesus. Reach up your hands for help. In your weakness lay hold of infinite strength. Ask for humility, wisdom, courage, increase of faith, that you may see light in God’s light and rejoice in His love.” (Ministry of Healing, p. 513)

Those who have a close relationship with Christ, however, will not be looking for fault in their spouse. One of the evidences that Jesus abides in us is that we will look for the best in the other instead of looking for and finding things for which to criticize them. When we are close to Jesus we will desire for Him to change us and not just trying to use Him to change our spouse so they can be what we want them to be. That’s why our prayers for our spouse should simply be that God will bless them and that they will come to experience Him in their lives as He wants to be know by us.

I want us to make sure we don’t ignore of gloss over the last few words of the quote above. Here they are: “Reach up your hands for help. In your weakness lay hold of infinite strength. Ask for humility, wisdom, courage, increase of faith, that you may see light in God’s light and rejoice in His love.” (Ministry of Healing, p. 513) When we are discouraged because our relationships is not all that we wish it were, when the problems and challenges we face seem to overwhelm us, lay hold of God’s strength. As for humility, wisdom, courage, and increase of faith. Commit your relationship to God and let Him handle it in His wisdom and might.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, bless me with humility, wisdom, and courage to fight for my marriage and for my family, and help me to draw close to You so that I may receive these blessings from your hands daily.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._