---
title: A Stumbling Block to Passion and Romance
date: 14/04/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> (Job 19:17 NKJV) My breath is offensive to my wife, And I am repulsive to the children of my own body.

### Observation

While Job’s friends continue trying to convince him of his wrongdoing and si and to get him to repent and seek God’s favor, Job defends himself from their accusations and pleading with God to defend him. We know he has not despaired because he pronounces some of the most beautiful, faith-filled words ever written: For I know that my Redeemer lives, And He shall stand at last on the earth; {26} And after my skin is destroyed, this I know, That in my flesh I shall see God, {27} Whom I shall see for myself, And my eyes shall behold, and not another. How my heart yearns within me! (Job 19:25-27 NKJV)

In our text for today we read of Job’s sadness that even the close relationship with his family has been affected by the smell coming from his body and from his breath.

### Application

Willard Harley, in his book His Needs, Her Needs, talks about the ten most important emotional needs of men and of women. He says that in general terms, men have the same five emotional needs, and women have the same emotional needs, although men’s emotional needs are in general not the same as those of women.

Understanding that, Harley says that one of the five most important emotional needs of men is Physical Attractiveness, by which he means That the wife should keep physically fit with diet and exercise and wear hair and clothing in a way that her husband finds attractive and tasteful. He also explains that if the attractiveness of your spouse makes you feel great, and loss of that attractiveness would make you feel very frustrated, you should include physical attractiveness in your list of important emotional needs.

Among the various aspects of physical attractiveness, weight generally gets the most attention. While physical attractiveness can’t endure as the basis for a relationship, it does meet certain strong needs that some people have.

Another area where physical attractiveness can derail romance and passion in marriage is personal hygiene. Even Job declares that “my breath is offensive to my wife,” which many women could identify with. No wonder some couple may share a quick kiss, but the passionate kisses they shred while dating are probably nonexistent and the passion it accompanied has left long ago. Other simple personal hygiene problems are showering or bathing daily, the use of deodorant, brushing your teeth, flossing them, and having them cleaned at the dentist regularly, shaving, wearing clean clothes. While all of these seem so logical, so many seem to forget how important they are I order to maintain passion and romance in their relationship.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, help us to maintain cleanliness of our bodies, not just for health reasons, but also that we may be able to maintain a healthy, passionate relationship with our spouse

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._