---
title: Worship
---

One of your goals can be to prioritize family worship as your baby grows. 

But how can we keep worship real and joy-filled?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Connect**

- Write down as many synonyms of worship as you can in 60 seconds. Share your list (for example: praise, honor, awe, majesty, wonder).
- Use some of these words to write a definition of worship. Share your definition with the group.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Explore**

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.**

**Read John 4:23; Revelation 4:1–11; and Isaiah 6:1–4.**

- These verses teach us about the wonder of God. What is the “spirit” of worship you see here? What is the “truth” of worship? Go back to your definition of worship. Is there anything you’d like to add after reading these verses?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Discuss**

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Read the following thoughts.**_ 

Then comment: Is this something you knew, or is it new?

- Of active Adventists, 40 percent of families never have worship at home, 27 percent have worship on a daily basis, and 33 percent have family worship once a week.1
- “Connecting our children to God through prayer is one of the most thrilling aspects of helping them grow spiritually” (Donna Habenicht, How to Help Your Child Really Love Jesus, p. 103).
  - “The hour of family worship should be made the happiest hour of the day” (Ellen G. White, Christian Service, p. 43). “It should be the special object of the heads of the family to make . . . worship intensely interesting” (Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, August 7, 1884).
  - “Let the seasons of family worship be short and spirited. Do not let your children or any member of your family dread them because of their tediousness or lack of interest. When a long chapter is read and explained and a long prayer offered, this precious service becomes wearisome, and it is a relief when it is over” (Ellen G. White, Child Guidance, p. 521).
  - “The family is one of God’s most precious gifts to humanity. The love that’s manifested and expressed among members can be a powerful object lesson, helping each one to understand the love that God has for them. But good, strong, happy families don’t just happen—they’re made. That process takes effort, patience, grace, and forgiveness. It also takes time; and to give time means to give of oneself, to perhaps put aside the things one might want to do and devote that time to others (in a limited way, rather like what Christ did for us). One way to do this is through family worship.”2

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Discuss and Challenge**

- What do these thoughts say about not only what we do for worship, but how we worship?
- What are the big messages we convey to our children by having family worship?
- Have you ever been part of someone else’s family worship that was done well? What was it like? (Consider inviting others in your group to your home for family worship.)
- What goals and plans would you like to put in place for family worship in your home?
- What would help you start some meaningful worship experiences in your family/home?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"}}}
**^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl"}}})**\
Pray together and ask God to help you\
make your family worship time a favorite activity for your child.