---
title: Sit
subtitle: Week 13
---

Take a moment to reflect on insights you’ve learned along the way this quarter.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

Invite each person to share a favorite place where they like to sit to relax (at the beach, under a tree, in a quiet chair).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect in Review

Think back on what you have explored this quarter. As you reflect back on these topics, share helpful insights that have contributed to your spiritual parenting both now and for the future.

1. ^[Dream]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) The spiritual dreams we have for our children.
2. ^[Cultivate]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) The kind of environment that will allow God to grow our children.
3. ^[Clarify]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Our goal is to teach them to know God, and not just know about Him.
4. ^[Step]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Early steps are important for formed habits.
5. ^[Show]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) The importance of being authentic in our walk with God.
6. ^[Abide]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Abiding in Jesus is the foundation of everything good and true.
7. ^[Read]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Ways to abide in God through His Word.
8. ^[Rest]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Ways to rest in God when burdened and how to lean on His strength.
9. ^[Slow down]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) The importance of slowing down family life so spiritual goals can remain central.
10. ^[Notice]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Living life at the pace of children and attending to emotional needs.
11. ^[Speak]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) The power of words in the life of a child.
12. ^[Worship]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Identifying family worship priorities.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Take turns sharing insights from the past few weeks.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect

Time and time again in God’s Word He invites us to come to Him. God invites us to bring our joys and our sadness, our victories and our stress. Whatever we are experiencing in life, He is there with us. He will be with us always (Matthew 28:20). Ellen G. White shares, “Prayer is the most holy exercise of the soul” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 5, p. 201).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Read the following verses.
Which one is your favorite? Share with the person next to you.

- Ephesians 6:18
- Jeremiah 29:12
- Philippians 4:6, 7
- 1 Chronicles 16:11

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Pray Together

Praise God for who He is and offer thanksgiving for what He has done for you in recent times. Then pray for the needs of those in your group.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Pray Praise

“If more praising of God were engaged in now, hope and courage and faith would steadily increase” (Ellen G. White, _Prophets and Kings_, p. 202).

- Praise God for what He is doing in your life and your baby’s life.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Pray Needs

“Take to Him everything that perplexes the mind. . . . Nothing is too great for Him to bear” (Ellen G. White, _Steps to Christ_, p. 100).

- Hand over your worries and concerns to God in prayer and let Him take care of them.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "align": "center"}}}
Thank you for sharing throughout this quarter.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-01-bb-pth/01/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
“The Lord bless you and keep you; the Lord make His face shine upon you,\
and be gracious to you; the Lord lift up His countenance upon you,\
and give you peace”.