---
title: The Ultimate Role Model In Giving
date: 17/05/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “But this I say: He who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. So let each one give as he purposes in his heart, not grudgingly or of necessity; for God loves a cheerful giver.” –2 Corinthians 9:6, 7

In various domains of life, there are numerous role models in the world who inspire others. In soccer, Ronaldo and Messi are revered as role models by many. Similarly, basketball boasts icons such as Michael Jordan and LeBron James. Those who enjoy athletics often look 
up to individuals like Usain Bolt. Some young Adventist preachers in college might mention E. E. Cleveland, Charles D. Brooks or Mark Finley as their role models.

When it comes to giving, who can we take as our role model? Throughout history, many individuals have given generously to God, serving as inspirations. Yet, there is one ultimate role model in giving—God Himself.

The Bible says in John 3:16, “For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life.” God gave us His only Son—Jesus. There was nothing more God could have given outside this one gift of His Son. He gave us everything. Jesus was the most valuable gift He could give to demonstrate His love for each one of us. In giving as He did, God is the Ultimate Role Model.

As His children and followers, we should emulate God, the Ultimate Role Model in giving. For us to give as He did, we should, by His grace, give the best of what He has blessed us with. The task of urgently taking the gospel of salvation to those who need it will not be accomplished without looking to God as our role model in giving.

### Appeal

Do you want God to be your role model in giving? Then, let us always give generously as we are blessed.