---
title: Home Visitation
---

“For years I have been shown that house-to-house labor is the work that will make the preaching of the Word a success.”<sup>31</sup> “It is not preaching that is the most important; it is house-to-house work, reasoning from the Word, explaining the Word.”<sup>32</sup> There are three types of evangelistic home visits: The comeback visit, the Sabbath visit, and the Baptism visit.

### The Comeback Visit

Visit those who have missed two nights in a row. This visit takes place at the door. Introduce yourself, identify with the meetings, thank them for coming and say, “I wanted to give you the material for the meetings you were unable to attend.” Tell of the next exciting meeting and ask if they will be there. If they say no, ask if the following meeting will be more convenient. If they are not home leave the material with a note on the door.

### The Sabbath Visit

Make the visit following the Sabbath presentation. It is wise to arrange this visit by phone or at the meetings. The purpose is to discover if they understand the Sabbath truth, answer any questions, and invite them to keep it. If they are unwilling, don’t push. Keep them coming, but if they are in agreement with the Sabbath, invite them to keep it.

Key questions: How have you been enjoying the meetings? Do you have any questions? Have you ever heard about the Bible Sabbath before? Is it clear to you that the Bible Sabbath is Saturday? If the response is positive, say, “Have you ever thought of keeping it?” Whether the response is yes or no, respond, “This Sabbath our church is having a special service. Do you think it would be possible for you to attend?”

If the response is negative, never argue. Let the Holy Spirit convict. Listen carefully and encourage them to keep attending.

### The Baptism Visit

Make it after the baptism presentation. The purpose is to ascertain if the person has accepted truth, to answer any questions, and to encourage them to be baptized. If they have marked a decision card, confirm, thank, and encourage them. Set a date. If there are problems needing to be resolved before baptism can occur, work with them to resolve these and encourage them to trust in Jesus for strength. If they have not marked a decision card, tell them how pleased God was when Jesus, our example, was baptized, and ask if they have ever thought of being baptized. Whether the answer is yes or no, respond, “I believe that every time a person makes a decision to be baptized God is well pleased. In two weeks we will be having a baptism. Is there anything stopping you from following the example of Jesus and being baptized?”<sup>33</sup>

“How can the great work of the third angel’s message be accomplished? It must be largely accomplished by persevering, individual effort, by visiting the people in their homes.”<sup>34</sup>

#### Endnotes

<sup>31</sup> Evangelism, p. 433.

<sup>32</sup> Gospel Workers, p. 468.

<sup>33</sup> ShareHim Team, The Harvest Is Ready: ShareHim Boot Camp Training Manual, (Charlotte, North Carolina, 2005), Session 8: “Home Visitation,” pp. 1, 2.

<sup>34</sup> Welfare Ministry, p. 97.