---
title: The Weekly Discipleship Meeting
---

The weekly meeting between the mentor and the new member is essential. There will be up to four different components in each meeting. Listed below is a brief description and an approximate amount of time needed for each component. The mentor should facilitate the meeting and initiate or complete each item on the weekly meeting outlines. Therefore, the instructions in these outlines are directed primarily toward the mentor.

Devotional Review (5-10 minutes). After the second meeting, each subsequent meeting will begin with a devotional review. The mentor and the new member should each share one brief lesson or insight gained from the previous week’s personal devotions. This is important for both support and mutual accountability.

Chapter Discussion (30-40 minutes). This is the main portion of each meeting. Carefully read and discuss the chapter. Recommended discussion questions are provided to guide you to key points within the chapter.

After the Study (5-10 minutes). After studying a chapter from the Discipleship Handbook, but before closing the meeting, there will usually be other important items to discuss or share. Mentors should familiarize themselves with these items ahead of time.

Outside the Meeting. These activities, which happen outside the weekly meeting, integrate the new member into the social life of the church and provide personal and church ministry opportunities. They can generally be completed within two or three weeks from the time they appear in a weekly outline. Mentors might consider including other church members in these activities to help the new member get to know more people and experience the fullness of church life.