---
title: Because We Are Concerned
date: 19/04/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world as a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come.” –Matthew 24:14

In 2 Corinthians 8:9, we read, “For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet for your sakes He became poor, that you through His poverty might become rich.” This verse reminds us of what Ellen G. White wrote. She said, “ Jesus did not count heaven a place to be desired while we were lost. He left the heavenly courts for a life of reproach and insult, and a death of shame. He who was rich in heaven’s priceless treasure, became poor, that through His poverty we might be rich. We are to follow in the path He trod” (The Desire of Ages, p. 416).

What made Jesus leave the riches of heaven and come here to earth to become poor? Love made Him do this. One characteristic of love is concern for others. Jesus was so concerned with our situation that He left heaven.

Jesus gave Himself as an offering for our sins because He was concerned. A concerned person never folds his or her hands in the face of duty or the plight of others. The millions of people who are still in darkness should evoke a sense of concern from all who were once in darkness.

Those who realize that the coming of Jesus is near, and yet much remains undone, should be led to give and help reach those in darkness with the message of salvation.

Friends, how can we pray that the Lord Jesus will come when most of the people in the 10/40 Window in post- Christian communities, and in large cities or elsewhere have not heard of God’s love? The question is: What are you doing to provide your brothers and sisters in those countries and beyond an opportunity to know Jesus? Offerings given tell a story of how concerned we are for those still not yet reached.

### Appeal

Let us, therefore, give generously and in proportion to our earnings so that the gospel can reach everyone.