---
title: Introduction
---

### 1. Create an atmosphere where total concentration and understanding is possible.

For example, try to arrange the weekly Bible study at a time when little children are in bed.

Have a few vital points arranged in logical order. Present these points clearly and sufficiently, at times utilizing simple stories and illustrations. But don’t overdo it. Ask questions and watch their eyes and body language. Listen to their answers and reinforce their correct answers. The message must be clearly understood for a decision to be made. And it is vital to get a decision in every study. That makes the bigger decisions easier.

### 2. Create an atmosphere of confidence, security, and freedom with the hearers as Jesus did.

He “won their confidence. Then He bade them, ‘Follow Me.’”<sup>1</sup> Don’t get pushy. Don’t be sharp. Jesus “exercised the greatest tact and thoughtful, kind attention. . . He was never rude, never needlessly spoke a severe word, never gave needless pain to a sensitive soul.”<sup>2</sup> (This is from a most valuable paragraph; it would be wise for you to memorize it.)

Show understanding in their hesitation and slowness to grasp and learn. They must see that the truth is correct and vital and how it has gripped and changed your life.

Maintain a balance between your concern for the truth and your concern for each individual. Show deep concern for their personal problems. Assure them that you will help them work out the difficulties that hinder their decision making. With Jesus, people had confidence and decided not only because of what He said but who He was. They knew He was a friend who loved, cared, and understood their challenges, and would support them.

It is not only what we say, but how and when we say it that counts (Isaiah 50:4). “The tones of the voice have much to do in affecting the hearts of those that hear.”<sup>3</sup>

### 3. The ABCs<sup>4</sup> of obtaining decisions:

- a. Accept, by agreeing and showing approval and appreciation.
- b. Believe they sincerely seek truth and desire a better life, and that the Holy Spirit can use you.
- c. Have confidence that “they will hear it” (Acts 28:28, 31).

### 4. Four levels of decision making:

- a. Information on the subject must be clear and free of objections. They must have . . .
- b. Conviction it is right, but then they must have the . . .
- c. Desire to do the specific . . .
- d. Action.

The key to getting action is to fan the flame of desire. This is not automatic. The Holy Spirit will use you to ask questions to make certain the information is clear. For example, you can ask, “Is it clear that. . . ?” Gain a decision in every Bible study. This makes the big decisions easier.

Show the benefits of the right action. Always stress the blessings more than the requirements of God. Here are five basic benefits: Inner peace (John 14:27 and Psalm 119:165); the Holy Spirit (Acts 5:32); true happiness (John 13:17; 10:10; and Psalm 84:11); a heavenly home (Hebrews 11:24- 26); and forgiveness and freedom from guilt (Acts 2:37-39; 22:16).

Show the consequences of the wrong action which are the opposite of the right action.

Show the expectations of a God who loves: “The desire to honor God should be to us the most powerful of all motives.”<sup>5</sup> All decisions should be in response to a loving Lord, but people are preoccupied with self-preservation, money, romance, recognition, and with the opinions of parents, partners, pastors, etc. It is therefore vital, through cooperation with the Holy Spirit, to make Jesus their most significant other; and to lead them into a living love relationship with Jesus as Saviour and Lord first before the testing truths are presented. Then as you lead them step by step into what He asks them to do, continue to discuss and nurture that relationship, helping them to depend on His power for obedience.

Here is how you may utilize the very important prayer of commitment after you have presented the subject on salvation and explained and illustrated such words as “purchased” and “reach out” clearly: (Using a little booklet such as The Four Spiritual Laws<sup>6</sup> makes it easier.)

Make a direct personal appeal: “As you have seen clearly the tremendous love of Jesus for you, what He has done for you, and that He now offers you the free gift of eternal life, I’m sure you would like to reach out and accept it. Isn’t that right? Why don’t we kneel in prayer and you tell God of your decision. Let’s review what you would want to say and then you tell God in your own words. If you miss a major point I’ll insert a word or two to remind you and then I will close. OK?”

Suggested Prayer: (Key points are emphasized). “Dear God, I am a **sinner** who is supposed to die. I **thank** you for sending Jesus, who **died** for me, **purchased** eternal life for me, and, wants to **give** me the gift of eternal life. I want to **reach** out and accept the gift. I am sorry for my sins. Please **forgive** me of all my sins. I want to turn away from sin completely. I **receive** Jesus into my heart as **Savior** and I want to make Him **Lord** and Master of my life. **Help** me to live for Jesus until He comes.”

(If the person is too shy he/she can repeat after you.)

Close with a prayer of thanksgiving. Welcome the person to the family of God. Give him/her Steps to Christ, urging the person to make the commitment daily in an established daily devotional life.

### 5. The strategy to use with the testing truths after Christ is both Saviour and Lord:

Make certain the truth is clear and free of objections. Clarify that it is important to Jesus (his/her Best Friend), who requests obedience. Base the appeal on love for Jesus, the Word of Jesus, and His promised blessings. Ask for a specific, definite action to be carried out immediately without delay. Express confidence. Ask expectantly.

Example: When making an appeal to John on Sabbath keeping after the Bible truth is clear and you sense, after much prayer that he desires to obey, you may say,

- a. “John, is it clear that Saturday is the Lord’s Day?
- b. “You’ve given your heart to Jesus. I know you love Him more than anything. Isn’t that right?
- c. “Because Jesus says to you in John 14:15, ‘If you love me keep my commandments,’ I’m sure you want to keep all His commandments, including the Sabbath.
- d. “As we have studied in Isaiah 58:13, 14 and elsewhere, He longs to bless you for doing it.
- e. “Therefore, I’m sure you don’t want to delay in doing it. David didn’t. Notice what he said in Psalms 119:58-60, ‘I thought in my ways . . . and delayed not to keep thy commandments.’
- f. “So because you love Jesus, He asks you to keep His Sabbath and receive His special blessing. Why don’t you let me pick you up at 9 a.m. this Saturday morning?” (Welcoming the Sabbath at his house on Friday night would be excellent).

To get a decision you must ask for a specific action. Remember the right moment to ask is when the fruit is ripe: There is conviction based on facts clearly understood to be right, objections are cleared, and desire is heightened and evident.

### 6. Seven reasons for asking for decisions promptly:

- a. It is clearest when it is fresh in the memory.
- b. Satan is working to lead the thoughts away.<sup>7</sup>
- c. Conviction may completely disappear if the person is not brought to decision at the “earliest period possible.”<sup>8</sup>
- d. A decision may be turned in another direction or toward another church.
- e. Relatives or members of other churches may confuse the issues or the truth in the mind.
- f. The interest in truth may completely disappear and the student may drift farther from Christ.<sup>9</sup>
- g. Circumstances such as moving, sickness, or death, may place the student beyond your reach in a very short time.

### 7. Answering objections:

Here is an effective way to answer objections. Use the FFF Technique.<sup>10</sup>

- a. Say, “I can understand how you feel.
- b. Many others in your present situation have felt the same way,
- c. but they have found. . . . d. Use this to...

### 8. Find an open door in the objection and pass through it to a favorable decision. Here are the steps:

- a. Listen carefully to the objection.
- b. Make sure it is an objection and not an excuse by asking if that is the only reason.
- c. Ask, “Why?” Ask the reason for the objection.
- d. Show you understand the real objection by repeating it in your own words. Paraphrase it.
- e. Get a commitment by asking, “If the objection could be removed would you decide immediately?”
- f. Answer the objection.
- g. Get the decision.

### 9. “You tell God:”

To strengthen the decision, ask the person to tell God in prayer in front of you what he/she has decided. Most people who are happy with the decision made will gladly do this.

### 10. Begin training:

Begin training this new potential soul winner by urging him/her to lead friends, family, work associates, or neighbors step by step as you have done.

### 11. Depend on the Holy Spirit moment by moment.

Persevere in following these simple guidelines and you will have success in gaining decisions for Christ and His truth.

Now we will enter into a more comprehensive discussion.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ministry of Healing, p. 143.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Steps to Christ, p. 12.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> Evangelism, p. 667.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>4</sup> If this document is translated, “ABCs” must be adjusted to translation.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>5</sup> Messages to Young People, p. 149.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>6</sup> The little booklet, Have You Heard of the Four Spiritual Laws? is available from Campus Crusade for Christ (http://www.campuscrusade.com).

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>7</sup> Evangelism, p. 441.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>8</sup> Ibid., p. 229.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>9</sup> The Desire of Ages, p. 322.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>10</sup> Adjust to translation.