---
title: Giving Even When You Don't Feel Like Giving
date: 30/08/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “And let us not grow weary while doing good, for in due season we shall reap if we do not lose heart.” –Galatians 6:9

Malume lived in a town in the Western Province of Zambia, where there is plenty of fish. He particularly liked the Zambezi River red-breasted bream. This fish was a delicacy to him. However, a frustrating pattern emerged: Whenever he purchased this prized fish, unexpected visitors would come, inevitably leading to the sharing of his cherished meal. This recurring scenario caused him considerable distress.

One day he bought a large, red-breasted bream, and meticulously fried it using its own oil. Anticipating the pleasure of savoring his meal, Malume eagerly approached the table. As he was about to indulge, he heard a knock on the door. He hesitated for a moment, torn between the dilemma of whether to share his meal with the unexpected visitor, or pretend he did not hear the knock and continue eating.

Finally, he reluctantly went to the door and welcomed the visitor inside, where they shared the meal together. These lunchtime visitors continued coming. However, Malume soon discovered that as he continued to share his meals with people, his discomfort lessened. Eventually, he found that he couldn’t fully enjoy eating a meal unless he was sharing it with someone else.

### Appeal

Like Malume, we should not wait until we feel happy to start giving. Such a time may never come. Instead, it’s through continuous acts of giving that we overcome our selfishness that often brings us discomfort. Remember that giving brings more blessings than receiving (Acts 20:35).