---
title: A Most Important Work
subtitle: Week 1
---

You hold your baby in your arms, considering where his feet will run, or what her hands will do as she grows. An astounding 90 percent of your baby’s brain will be developed by the time they are 5 years old.<sup>1</sup> Their characters are largely shaped by the time they are 7 (see Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 193).

Perhaps it’s a little daunting to think about raising a child in this era in which we find ourselves. You might think of a teenager who is genuine in their love for God—they know who they are despite the pressures of popular culture, and you wonder what their parents did over the years to help shape their character.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ Who helped shape your character as a young child? Some of us may not have had an easy childhood, but for those who are willing, share a memory of a moment or family ritual that positively influenced who you are today.
+ Is it more common to meet children who are very much like their parents, or those who are not?

Think about families you know who have older children. In what ways can you see the parents’ characteristics reflected in their children? How does this make you feel about your own family? This quarter let’s consider the character traits that are valuable to grow in our own lives and nurture in the lives of our children.

Spend 60 seconds writing a list of character traits that are important to you. Share your list with the group and consider what is common to you all.

+ What character traits does Jesus want you to cultivate in your child? How do you know?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

**Read** Galatians 5:22, 23 and write a list of the character traits listed there.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

+ Of these character traits, which one most defines you?
+ Of these character traits, which do you need to ask God to develop in you more? Can we, in ourselves, grow these traits?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect and Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Read, then reflect on, the following quotes:

> “Character building is the most important work ever entrusted to human beings; and never before was its diligent study so important as now. Never was any previous generation called to meet issues so momentous; never before were young men and young women confronted by perils so great as confront them today” (Ellen G. White, _Education_, p. 225).

> “Every act of life, however unimportant, has its influence in forming the character. A good character is more precious than worldly possessions, and the work of forming it is the noblest in which men can engage” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 165).

+ Why do you think character building is the most important work ever entrusted to us?
+ What are some of the “momentous issues” that confront children and impact their character?
+ What might be some surprising “acts of life” that could influence the formation of character?

Let’s turn our minds to the characters of our little ones this quarter as we reflect on how God is also shaping our characters through the experience of caring for a child.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-04-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Commit and Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Spend time praying for God to refine your own character as you think\
and work to shape your baby’s character, knowing that their character\
is the only thing they’ll take with them to heaven\
(see Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 161).

{"style":{"text":{"size": "sm"}}}
This quarter we’ll focus on growing our child’s character for eternity. There are many good parenting books available, which you may like to use to supplement your discussion, but this publication will use primarily the Bible and various chapters from the book Child Guidance. You may want to read the entire book during the next few months.

---

{"style":{"text":{"size": "xs"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Institute of Child Psychology, _Childhood Brain Development._