---
title: Introduction
---

Dear Parent/Guardian/Church Leader,

Parents are sometimes challenged in providing meaningful worship experiences for their children. This is an especially difficult time to disciple children when families are quarantined and churches are closed. “Lessons from Jesus” will teach principles from some of Jesus’ parables. This curriculum can help parents disciple their children even when they are not able to attend a church worship service.

This is not a replacement or a substitute for a Sabbath School curriculum, but a worship kit designed for families to lead a full worship experience for their children at home. Churches can purchase the materials in bulk, organize them in kits, then mail/distribute to the families. Highlighted items are the materials that the church/group can purchase for the kit. Internet links are provided to make it easier to find the kit items. However, you may choose to supplement with alternative items as is convenient for you. The worship kits, along with the worship guide, and common household items will provide all the necessary materials for families to engage in a meaningful worship experience that will meet the needs of children of a wide age range.

We invite you to add this fun, kid-friendly, interactive worship kit to your toolbox for helping to deepen your family’s walk with Christ. “Shelter in Place” offers an opportunity for engaging family Bible study time like never before! Try this Adventist resource and tell us what you think.

In His Service,

**Ron Whitehead**\
_Executive Director_\
Center for Youth Evangelism

**Shawna Trotman Henry**\
_Children’s Ministries Director_\
Center for Youth Evangelism