---
title: "Home, Sweet Home: What is our Most Important Task?"
---

_By Galina Stele_

in 1913, two years before her death, Ellen White had an interesting conversation with a young man, a teacher, who was helping her with her writings and temporarily lived in her house in Elmshaven, CA (Spalding, 1949). Talking about parents’ responsibilities, she said that the church should do more to educate parents on how to bring up their kids in faith. She told the young man that his “work as a father is the most important educational work” he had “ever done or ever can do.” She continued that pastors, teachers, and medical personnel can do their work to educate and teach church members, “but underneath all their efforts, the first work done by the parents is the work that tells most decidedly for the upbuilding of the church” (Spalding, p. 192).

Ellen White added that she wished she could travel as before and teach this subject to the church members. The young man noted that she had written this in her books, and people had them. But Ellen White sadly replied that she was afraid that people did not read her books and did not understand that this work is “more important than anything else.” Surprised, he clarified if she meant that the most important thing for the church is teaching parents how to train their children for God. She affirmed it and added: “... and we have not begun to touch it with the tips of our fingers (Spalding, p. 193).

Since then, the Adventist Church has done a lot in this area. However, the importance of teaching parents how to train their children to have a close relationship with God and be raised in a safe and happy home is still the same for each generation. It becomes even more crucial with many families experiencing different types of crises, not functioning well, or falling apart. It is no coincidence that the definition of functional and dysfunctional families has become part of our vocabulary.

One may wonder if a Christian family can be dysfunctional. Also, we can ask if the reality of how well our family functions affects our ability to bring our children closer to God. But what are the main characteristics of functional and dysfunctional families?

### Functional and Dysfunctional Families

It is easy to guess that functional families function well. They represent homes with healthy, warm atmospheres and healthy relations. Dysfunctional families are the opposite of happy families, filled with love, joy, and support. The word “dysfunction” reflects that something is broken or does not work properly. Norman Wright compares a dysfunctional family with a plane that lost its navigation and is going in the wrong direction. Even a tiny deviation from the course will result in the wrong destination. The same happens with families. Small things that hinder relations can bring a family to the wrong destination. and family members can find themselves in a home filled with criticism, misunderstanding, offense, and mistrust (Wright, p. 61).

Some people think that only families with a disabled child or with a family member suffering from addiction or mental illness are dysfunctional. Others consider a single-parent family or a divorced family in this category. Sadly, many people are not aware that any family, even a Christian family, can become dysfunctional if it allows certain behavioral patterns to prosper in their home. Let us look at the main differences between these two family types (Wright, pp. 60-73).

| Functional Family | Characteristics | Dysfunctional Family |
| --- | --- | --- |
| The home atmosphere is warm and pleasant. It is not a common practice to criticize and judge. | Atmosphere | The home atmosphere is cold. Members regularly judge, criticize, accuse, or ignore each other or other people. |
| There is a mutual understanding and support. Everyone has some responsibilities but is allowed to be yourself. Kids can be kids; adults are also allowed to be kids sometimes. | Mutual support and responsibilities | There are very high expectations and strict rules. Family members have low self-esteem. Parents shame or punish children if they have not met their expectations. |
| Constant care for each member. Support and approval are regular. | Care, approval, and encouragement | Neglect or absence of care, or hyper care. Offenses, hurt feelings, and different kinds of abuse can be present. |
| Open and direct communication. The joy or problems of one member are important to the whole family. Fears, problems, and failures can be shared and discussed. Family members can count on understanding and acceptance. There are no rejections. | Communication | There is poor communication and a prohibition to talk about family problems in or outside the family. Family members do not share because of fear of being misunderstood, judged, or punished. There can also be communication through a third person (triangulation), e.g., “Go and tell your mom...” or communication with double messages when words tell one thing, but the voice tone or action sends different signals. |
| Parents are respected and trusted. There is a healthy interdependence of all members. Children are raised to be able to make good and right choices. Children are equally loved and treasured. | Relationships between parents and children | An authoritarian parenting style is one in which the weak members are dependent on the strong. No choices are given, or a choice between two evils, e.g., “You will eat your lunch or else!” Permissive or neglectful parenting styles may be overly lenient or disengaged. Favoritism is present: the little princess, the saint, the scapegoat, etc. |
| The family has many traditions and often spends time together, creating warm memories. Family members anticipate this time together, prepare for it, and treasure it. They also plan to have time or vacation together and enjoy such opportunities. | Time together | Time together is rare or only takes place because of obligations (family reunions, weddings, funerals, graduations, holidays, etc.). Time together often ends with fights and hurt feelings. Workaholism of some members, e.g., parents, can be present. There are no nice traditions for time spent together. |
| The feelings of all family members are shared and respected. A member in trouble can count on the support of others. When one is suffering, all are suffering with them, but in a different way than in a dysfunctional family. Humor, joy, and laughter are experienced together. | Feelings and reasons for joy and celebrations | Feelings are not shared, and only certain emotions are allowed. If | a family member, especially an authority figure, suffers, they will make others miserable too. Different kinds of abuse can occur. Humor is often used as a means of humiliation. |

Thus, these two types represent very different families. They are opposite in their extremes. The home atmosphere shapes a child’s self-esteem and their identity. It affects their perception of and relationship with God. It either brings them closer to Him or prevents them from building happy relationships with their parents’ God.

We have valuable advice from the Spirit of Prophesy: “Every home should be a place of love, a place where the angels of God abide, working with softening, subduing influence upon the hearts of parents and children” (White, p. 18.6). “The home that is beautified by love, sympathy, and tenderness is a place that angels love to visit, and where God is glorified. The influence of a carefully guarded Christian home in the years of childhood and youth is the surest safeguard against the corruption of the world. in the atmosphere of such a home the children will learn to love both their earthly parents and their heavenly father” (White, p. 19.2).

The apostle John cited the words from Jesus’ prayer about the most important knowledge we could ever get: “and this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent” (John 17:3, KJV). A happy home filled with warmth, trust, and love will transmit this knowledge of God more effectively.

### What Can We Do?

A functional family is not a perfect family. We also meet imperfect families in the Bible: Issac and Jacob and their sons, the family of King David, Elkanah with his two wives, and others. However, God was able to use them, and He can also use our imperfect families, transform us, and make our families a blessing for our children and others. But we should be intentional in bringing our family closer to God so that He can work in it and through it. What can we do?

Here are some suggestions:

1. Treat your children as valuable people. Analyze not so much your feelings but your words and actions because they show your children how you treat them. Decide never to humiliate your child. Remember, we all have sinful natures, both your children and you as parents. We all need God’s power to transform us. However, your children are more immature and need your guidance, love, acceptance, respect, and example to imitate.
2. Build positive communication. Talk to your children about their emotions and describe yours. Allow them also to share negative feelings. It will help build trust. Let even the youngest family members share their thoughts, problems, and suggestions. Teach them how to meet difficult situations and find constructive solutions. Do not reward negative criticism. Help them evaluate actions, not people.
3. Disciple your children. Help them create habits for their spiritual life and growth: teach them how to pray in different circumstances, read the Bible, memorize some important Bible texts, and study their Sabbath School lessons. Talk with them about God, Bible characters, their failures and victories. Answer their questions and explain the church doctrines.
4. Conduct family worship using interesting stories, and involve your children. Make these evenings attractive and interactive so that your children anticipate these 15-20 minutes before bedtime. The time when the family can talk, read, sing, and pray together is priceless. You can experience that such meetings can bring unity, erase misunderstandings, and cover all with God’s blessings. According to the Global Church Member Survey, conducted in all divisions of the Adventist Church in 2022-2023, 40% of the respondents answered that they had daily family worship. and an additional 26% said they had them at least weekly (Bailey et al., pp. 71-72). What about your family?
5. Regularly spend some free time with your children. Plan this time in addition to holidays and vacations. Take into consideration the suggestions and wishes of your children. Remember that time together should bring joy. Create family traditions and count God’s blessings during these special times.
6. Teach your children to serve others. Involve them in community service, sick member visitations, or kind acts for neighbors. Teach them that we do this to reveal God’s love.
7. Make the Sabbath experience a delight and climax of each week. Plan your activities as a family, spend time together, invite other families, visit nature, and teach them to enjoy this time with each other and God.

So, what are the characteristics of your family and my family? Let us not be discouraged if we recognize that it has some dysfunctional traits. We all are broken people, but God is in business to transform us and our families. Let us cling to His power. Let us intentionally create a happy oasis in our homes and focus on our primary task as parents—bringing our children closer to their Lord and Savior. and when the Lord comes and asks: “... Where is the flock that was given thee, thy beautiful flock?” (Jer. 13:20b, KJV). We can reply: “Here am I, and the children the Lord has given me” (Is. 8:18a, NIV).

#### References

Bailey, K. G. D., Trecartin, S. M., McBride, D. C., & Baltazar, A. M. (2024). 2022-2023 global church member survey: Meta-analysis report (pp. 71–72). https://www.adventistresearch.info/wp-content/uploads/GCMS-III- meta-analysis-report-FINAL-February-2024-Cover-Page-Adjustment.pdf

Spalding, A. W. (1949). Christ’s last legion: Second volume of a history of Seventh-day Adventists covering the years 1901–1948. Review and Herald Publishing Association. https://documents.adventistarchives.org/Books/ CLL1949.pdf

White, E. G. (1952). Adventist home. Review and Herald Publishing Association. https://m.egwwritings.org/en/ book/128.36#52

Wright, H. N. (1992). The premarital counseling handbook. Moody Press.

_Galina Stele, DMin is the Director of the Department of Women’s Ministries at the General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists World Headquarters in Silver Spring, Maryland, USA._