---
title: Death and Resurrection
---

God created human beings as a combination of body and the breath of life (body + breath = living being). Death is the opposite of the creation process, with the body returning to the dust and the breath, or “spirit,” returning to God. This breath, or spirit, is not a conscious person but is simply the life-giving power of God. Genesis 2:7; Psalm 104:29, 30; Ecclesiastes 12:7; Job 27:3.

The wages of sin is death. But God, who alone is immortal, will clothe the righteous with immortality when Christ returns. Until that day, death is an unconscious “sleep” for all people. Those who die do not go straight to heaven or hell, but rest in the grave, awaiting one of two resurrections. Romans 6:23; 1 Timothy 6:15, 16; Psalm 13:3; 115:17; 146:3, 4; Ecclesiastes 9:5, 6, 10; John 5:28, 29; 11:11-14; Acts 2:29-34; Daniel 12:2, 13.

When Christ, who is our life, appears, the resurrected righteous and the living righteous will be glorified and caught up to meet their Lord. The second resurrection, the resurrection of the unrighteous, will take place a thousand years later. Job 19:25-27; Isaiah 25:8; 1 Corinthians 15:51-54; 1 Thessalonians 4:13-18; Colossians 3:4; Revelation 20:1-10.

Because the dead are “asleep,” they cannot communicate with us. If we falsely believe we can make contact with those who have died, evil spirits can impersonate the dead or in other ways deceive us. Therefore, all forms of witchcraft, magic, astrology, and other spiritualistic or occult practices are expressly forbidden in the Bible. Job 7:9, 10; 14:21; Leviticus 19:31; 20:6, 27; Deuteronomy 18:10-12; Isaiah 8:19, 20; Isaiah 47:12-15; Acts 19:18-20; 1 Timothy 4:1.

**My Commitment**: _Because the Bible teaches that those who have died are in a state of unconscious “sleep,” I choose to avoid entertainment or practices that promote false views of death or other spiritualistic activity._

- [x] Yes, I agree.
- [ ] I have questions.

`My questions`