---
title: Preserving the Harvest
---

Again, as expressed above, this is most vital to the real success of public evangelism. The newly baptized may look like mature adults but they are babies. They can fall. They need cleaning up, encouragement, and care.

We have been called to make disciples. Disciples are mature and grounded in the faith with a lifestyle of discipleship. This takes time. Studies show that new members need six close friends in six months to stay in the church. Close friends are not the ones that merely say, “Hi” at church. The new believers need to be put into the network of relationships in the church.

There are three phases of new believer experience.

1. **Honeymoon**: People are passionate. Generally, church people are friendly and accepting. The message is clear to them. They experience victory over sin. Even family members are happy for their progress. They want to do everything in the church.
2. **Disillusionment**: The “perfect” remnant has politics. It gossips. The new believer begins struggling with sins. Their family thinks the church is taking too much of their time. Former friends outside the church start rejecting their new faith. They feel isolated. They are not given jobs in the church, and are told they must wait for that privilege. They notice members not practicing their beliefs. They discover texts that trouble them. If we don’t give them special care they will be out of the church.
3. **Integration**: Those who have been nurtured become integrated into the church and part of the relationship networks. While their early passion may diminish a little, they have a deeper love for Jesus. Even in their struggle with sin, they have an assurance of salvation. They tolerate inconsistencies of other members’ behavior. They become a little more mature in their approach to church; it’s not simply black and white. Most importantly, they start participating in the mission of the church.

For successful integration, new members must have spiritual friends. A successful evangelist says he gives the spiritual friends a charge, listing specifics: The first Friday night, visit the new members in their homes, and have sundown worship with them. Next morning, sit with them in Sabbath School. Show them the hymnal and Sabbath school Bible Study Guide (quarterly), etc. Take them home with you for lunch. Show them how to keep Sabbath, eat, etc. If they miss a Sabbath service, before you go home to eat, stop at their homes, find out why they missed, and encourage them. If a new member misses three Sabbaths in a row, he says, that person may already be a casualty.

Let’s discuss the “spiritual friends” concept in more detail. How do you start and continue?

Toward the end of the meetings, make a list of interest names who regularly attend and whom you anticipate to baptize. Call together active members that through the series have shown that they would be pleasant dedicated spiritual friends. Invite them to make a commitment to be spiritual friends to specific people for at least three months.

There is a specific process they must do every week and report what they have done. It may include:

1. Make weekly visits and/or phone calls.
2. Invite them home for Sabbath dinners once a month. Invite others along with them, so they can meet others besides yourself.
3. Do some social activities together.
4. Sit with them in church. Make church the place to be on Sabbath morning.
5. Introduce them to other members.
6. Help them to establish a daily devotional life. Have worship with them.
7. Get them involved in a small group study. It is important that they continue to study and pray to be strong.
8. Look for ways to involve them in church activities and in outreach. As mentioned above, they have a network of acquaintances. Help them reach out to these. Nothing can strengthen their faith more than giving Bible studies to others. If they are with you in a Sabbath School Action Unit all this is a natural.
9. Love them and tell them how much you appreciate them. Spiritual friends should not:
   - a. Let two weeks pass without contacting their new friends.
   - b. Preach at their new friends or get into an argument criticizing the way they believe.
   - c. Answer their questions with, “Ellen White says. . .” The meetings have utilized only the Bible. If you don’t know the answer, simply say it’s a great question and that you will study it. Follow through!
   - d. Be shocked if they make suggestions or remarks not in harmony with the faith. Growth takes time.
   - e. Speak negatively of certain members, leaders, or other denominations.

What works well: What do most people like who come into the church through an evangelistic series? Prophecy, music, and finding new information in the Bible. But at church, it is business as usual. To keep new members, plan to have a prophecy Bible class in the church. Make sure the pastor preaches on prophecy once a month.

New members will usually do whatever you tell them to do. They don’t know any differently. So if you involve them in a ministry in a small group, they will do it. If you tell them, “You have to hold an evangelistic meeting within the first year of being in this church,” they’ll do it. If you tell them that coming to this church means they have to attend a weekly Bible study and a prophecy seminar course and bring five of their non-member friends to church within the year, they’ll do it. Instruct them right at the beginning and they will be good church members at the end.

If you follow up faithfully, depending constantly on the Holy Spirit for wisdom, you will have success. Make public evangelism successful. Preserve the harvest.<sup>35</sup>

#### Endnotes

<sup>35</sup> ShareHim Team, The Harvest Is Ready: ShareHim Boot Camp Training Manual, (Charlotte, North Carolina, 2005), Session 7: “Preserving the Harvest,” pp. 1-4.