---
title: Spiritual Gifts and the Gift of Prophecy
---

God bestows upon all members of His church in every age spiritual gifts, which each member is to employ in loving ministry to others. Given by the Holy Spirit to each member as He wills, the gifts equip the church with all abilities and ministries needed to fulfill its mission. Spiritual gifts also protect the church from false doctrine and build it up in faith and love. Ephesians 4:7, 8, 11-16; Romans 12:4-8; 1 Corinthians 12:7-11, 27, 28; Acts 6:1-7; 1 Timothy 3:1-13; 1 Peter 4:10, 11.

Not every apparent manifestation of a spiritual gift is from God. Counterfeit versions of gifts such as prophecy, teaching, heal- ing, miracles, and tongues have led many astray. The true gift of tongues, for instance, does not refer to the emotional utterance of unintelligible sounds, but is described in Acts 2 as the divinely given ability to speak foreign languages when communicating the gospel. Genuine spiritual gifts are characterized by order rather than chaos, understanding rather than confusion, self-control rather than loss of control, and clear reasoning rather than merely emotional experiences. They are given to those who adhere to God’s Word, obey His law, and manifest the fruit of the Spirit in their lives. Matthew 7:20-23; 24:24; 2 Corinthians 11:13-15; 2 Thessalonians 2:9; Revelation 13:14; 16:13, 14; Acts 1:8; 2:1-11; 10:44-47; 1 Corinthians 12:28-13:1; 14:33, 40; Isaiah 8:20; Galatians 5:22, 23.

One of the gifts of the Holy Spirit is prophecy. As with the other spiritual gifts, the prophetic gift is available to the church through the end of time. Numbers 12:6; 2 Chronicles 20:20; Amos 3:7; Ephesians 4:11-13; Joel 2:28-31; Acts 2:14-21.

One of the identifying marks of God’s last-day church is the “testi- mony of Jesus Christ”—a phrase that refers to the “spirit of prophecy,” or the prophetic gift. Seventh-day Adventists see a fulfillment of this end-time gift of prophecy in the ministry of Ellen G. White, believing that her writings speak with prophetic authority and provide comfort, guidance, instruction, and correction to the church. Her writings also make clear that the Bible is the standard by which all teaching and experience must be tested. Revelation 12:17; 19:10; 22:8, 9; 1 Corinthians 1:6, 7.

**My Commitment**: _It is my purpose to use any spiritual gifts or abilities the Lord gives me to help fulfill the mission of the church. I acknowledge the gift of prophecy to be a special characteristic of God’s last-day church given to lead His people to more closely follow the teachings of the Bible._