---
title: Accepting Erring Former Members
---

Sometimes the church has difficulty in forgiving and accepting former members who have made mistakes. Nothing can bring greater joy to the congregation than doing as Jesus would do: forgiving, forgetting, and accepting former members back into loving fellowship regardless of what they have done. In conclusion, here is a helpful story shared by world evangelist and church leader Mark Finley:

“Forgive as you are forgiven.”

“Tension filled the room! Our elders had strong feelings about the point under discussion. Jacquie grew up as a member of the church. Twenty years earlier, while a member of this particular church, she had committed adultery, left her husband and married another man. Now she desired to be re-baptized. Appearing before the church board she sobbed out her repentance and asked for forgiveness.

“An icy silence ensued. No one said anything. They knew too much about her. They understood too well the hurt she had brought to the congregation. She had inflicted pain on so many.

She sat on one side of the room, with the board on the other. The chasm between them seemed almost impossible to span.

“I knew I had to speak. My words were calm but direct. ‘She has suffered enough. Let’s not give her any more pain. Paul’s counsel is for us: “Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ’s sake has forgiven you” (Ephesians 4:32). If God in all His perfection accepts and forgives us, we can forgive Jacquie.’

“With quivering lips, her voice cracking, she replied, ‘I know I have done wrong. For years I have felt guilty. At times the guilt has almost driven me crazy. Please accept me.’

“I noted a tear in the first elder’s eye. Then I realized that most of the church board was crying. Soon a chorus of voices responded in unison, ‘Of course, of course, we will accept you.’ Warmth, love, and joy filled the room. Board members reassured Jacquie of their love. Some hugged her. Others squeezed her hand in the warmth of Christian fellowship.

“I stood back, quietly recognizing again that our church was never more the church than at that moment. Here was the love of God in action. Here was Calvary demonstrated in the family of God.”<sup>13</sup>

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>13</sup> Mark Finley, They’re Coming Home. pp. 18, 19.