---
title: Taking the Initiative
subtitle: Chapter 3
---

For many Christians, witnessing is an idea that never seems to move beyond the realm of good intentions. At times we feel inspired to witness, but then we fail to follow through. The key to overcoming this tendency is to pursue the development of a side of Christian character that is often neglected: “Christian life is more than many take it to be. It does not consist wholly in gentleness, patience, meekness, and kindliness. These graces are essential; but there is need also of courage, force, energy, and perseverance” (_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 497).

Witnessing requires more than passive traits of character. It takes energy and courage to share Bible truth with others. In fact, active traits such as these are needed for witnessing every bit as much as meekness and kindness. While those who lack active virtues might be warm and friendly, they are slow to labor for the salvation of souls, and they often give up at the first sign of difficulty.

Ellen White states it plainly: “Some who engage in missionary service are weak, nerveless, spiritless, easily discouraged. They lack push. They have not those positive traits of character that give power to do something—the spirit and energy that kindle enthusiasm. Those who would win success must be courageous and hopeful. They should cultivate not only the passive but the active virtues” (ibid.).

#### Seeking the Lost

Witnessing requires a certain amount of “push,” or drive to “do something.” Yet sadly, many Christians think only of Jesus’ gentle and loving disposition, while they neglect His other essential traits. They do not take time to appreciate His boldness, courage, energy, firmness, and determination, and thus fail to pattern their lives after these virtues. They end up “weak, nerveless, spiritless,” and “easily discouraged.”

Scripture testifies that Jesus came “to seek and to save that which was lost” (Luke 19:10). Our Savior didn’t stay in heaven. He came down from His comfortable throne and exerted every ounce of His energy to rescue fallen humanity. He is the faithful shepherd in the parable of the lost sheep, who seeks after “the one which is lost _until he finds it_” (Luke 15:4). Now, that’s a worthy model of effort and determination!

In order to experience soul-winning success, we must follow the example of Jesus: “The Savior mingled with men as one who desired their good” (_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 143). Christ’s fervent love for the lost compelled Him to mingle with people. He didn’t ignore them. He didn’t become so absorbed in His own interests that He didn’t have time to become acquainted with theirs. He was intentional. He chose to interact with lost people, with the ultimate goal of saving their souls.

We must draw near to those we desire to help. Jesus made this clear to His disciples when He promised to make them “fishers of men” (Mark 1:17). If there’s anything that people who fish know, it’s that you have to go to the water, where the fish are, if you want to catch them. Nobody puts a bucket on the lakeshore and waits for the fish to flop out of the lake, across the sand, and into the bucket!

No, we have to go _fishing_ if we want to catch fish. We have to _mingle_ if we want to win souls. We have to _seek_ if we want to find lost people. “We are not to wait for souls to come to us; we must seek them out where they are. . . . There are multitudes who will never be reached by the gospel unless it is carried to them” (_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 229). Then let us take the initiative and be active soul winners and intentional witnesses for Christ.

#### Home Missionaries

So where should we begin? Jesus taught us how to prioritize our labors: “But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be witnesses to Me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth” (Acts 1:8). Witnessing should begin with those nearest to us. The first recipients of our witness should be in our own homes and among our families. In this Jesus gave us His own example: “Christ acted in a manner that blessed the household in which He was found, for He was subject to His parents and thus did missionary work in His home life” (_The Adventist Home_, p. 290).

Notice that the initial way Jesus did missionary work was to bless and obey His parents. Showing love in our homes and encouraging our families to walk with God is the first and most fundamental form of witnessing: “If they ever learn to do genuine missionary work for others, they must first learn to labor for those at home, who have a natural right to their offices of love” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 6, p. 429). “As workers for God, our work is to begin with those nearest. It is to begin in our own home. There is no more important missionary field than this” (_Child Guidance_, p. 476). “The management and instruction of children is the noblest missionary work that any man or woman can undertake” (ibid.). “The first great business of your life is to be a missionary at home” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 4, p. 138).

While the home is our first field of labor, it isn’t our _only_ field. We should be careful to labor for those outside our homes as well. Even busy parents, in order to train their children and to grow spiritually themselves, should take the opportunity to witness to their neighbors and communities. Consider the following admonition given to someone who considered his home his only field of labor:

“Your interest, and efforts, and anxieties are for your family and your relatives. But you have not entertained the idea of reaching out for others around you, overcoming your reluctance to exert an influence outside of a special circle. You idolize yours, and shut yourselves within yourselves. That the Lord may save me and mine is the great burden. This spirit will have to die before you can flourish in the Lord and make spiritual advancement, before the church can grow and souls be added unto them of such as shall be saved.

“You are all narrowed up as to labor for others, and must change your base of operations. Your relatives are no dearer in the sight of God than any other poor souls who need salvation. We must put self and selfishness under our feet, and exemplify in our lives the spirit of self-sacrifice and disinterested benevolence manifested by Jesus when He was upon earth. All should have an interest for their relatives, but should not allow themselves to be shut up to them as though they were the only ones whom Jesus came to save” (ibid., vol. 2, p. 77).

#### More Fields of Labor

In addition to their families, Christians should also put forth efforts to reach their neighbors. When Jesus told the story of the good Samaritan, He made it clear that our definition of “neighbor” shouldn’t be limited to the people who live nearest to us (see Luke 10:29-37). But it certainly shouldn’t exclude them! We should draw close to those who live around us and look for ways to bless and serve them. Think of small favors you can do to lighten their burdens, such as caring for their property or animals, running errands for them, or offering to keep an eye on their homes while they’re away. On birthdays and holidays, a thoughtful gift can make a warm impression. And don’t forget the impact of a simple invitation to share a meal together.

> <callout></callout>
> While the home is our first field of labor, it isn’t our _only_ field.

Most of us also have family, friends, and former neighbors and coworkers that we’ve regrettably lost contact with over the years. Though no one may be to blame, sometimes our former friends can feel hurt or forgotten. It’s never too late to seek to reestablish these relationships, whether through letters, cards, small gifts, emails, phone calls, text messages, or social media. Especially is this important if some of those we’ve lost contact with are not believers. This may be an opportunity to win these souls to Christ.

Moving beyond those we already know, there are also many witnessing opportunities in the broader community. Do you make regular or periodic contact with a store clerk, bank teller, or postal worker? Go out of your way to smile, be kind and helpful, engage in conversation, and show patience and sympathy. One day you will want to give a piece of literature or an event flyer to these individuals. Their response will be more favorable to these seed-sowing gestures if they’ve come to know you as someone who desires their good.

Another fertile field of labor that is often overlooked is the church. While many Christians will smile and say hello to church visitors, opportunities to win these souls are frequently neglected. When members assume that the pastor or someone else in the church will minister to these souls, the work is often left undone. Ellen White warned of the danger of leaning on the group instead of taking personal responsibility: “Everywhere there is a tendency to substitute the work of organizations for individual effort. . . . Multitudes leave to institutions and organizations the work of benevolence; they excuse themselves from contact with the world, and their hearts grow cold” (_Last Day Events_, p. 75).

Marvin was a Sabbath School teacher with a burden for souls. When a visitor named Pam came to his class, he watched closely to gauge her interest. When class was over, he approached her and said, “Pam, thanks for joining us today. I wanted to let you know that my wife and I enjoy studying the Bible with friends, and if you’d ever be interested, we’d love to have you over to our home to go through a series of Bible studies together.” Pam’s response was immediate: “Yes, I would love to!” She had been looking for Christian friends to study the Bible with, and after several months of study and fellowship, she was baptized.

How many Sabbath School teachers make the offer that Marvin did? How many Pathfinder directors visit the homes of parents and youth who are not members of the church? How many church members and leaders make intentional efforts to win the hearts of regular visitors, unbaptized youth, unbelieving spouses, and many others who attend our church services and events? And what about young, new, or struggling members who need our encouragement, sympathy, and mentorship? Indeed, every church needs witnesses—even in the building!

No matter what the field of labor, you will have far greater soul-winning success if you demonstrate a genuine interest in others. Think of intentional ways to bless and minister to the needs of family, friends, neighbors, coworkers, church visitors, and others in your community. As you do, here are several small but important kindnesses that will make a significant difference in your Christian witness:

- **Be grateful**—Express your thanks for emails, texts, gifts, cards, or other kind words or gestures.
- **Be hospitable**—Freely invite people to your home. Offer warmth, food, and fellowship.
- **Be generous**—Give small tokens and gifts whenever possible to show your love and appreciation.
- **Be inclusive**—Welcome people into your social circle. Include people in conversations.
- **Be helpful**—Notice when work needs done and jump in to help. Bear others’ burdens.
- **Be polite**—Let others go first and choose first. Listen well and don’t rudely speak or interrupt.
- **Be interested**—Ask questions about the interests of others and take care to remember the details.
- **Be gracious**—Overlook the faults of others (see Proverbs 19:11). Don’t censure or criticize.

Follow these simple suggestions, and you will have far greater success when you attempt to use the methods of sharing the Word that will be outlined in the remainder of this book.

#### Remember the Source of Power

As we prepare to launch into much practical instruction in the chapters ahead, we pause to remember that without maintaining communion with Christ, we will never have success in witnessing (see John 15:5; Psalm 127:1). Yet Ellen White warns that many Christians have a natural inclination to rely on their own ability: The church members “are more ready for active labor than for humble devotion, more ready to engage in outward religious service than in the inner work of the heart. Meditation and prayer are neglected for bustle and show” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 4, p. 535).

Bustle and show will always be more appealing to some people than prayer and meditating on God’s Word. Especially does this inclination become a temptation after experiencing a measure of success: “As activity increases and men become successful in doing any work for God, there is danger of trusting to human plans and methods. There is a tendency to pray less, and to have less faith. Like the disciples, we are in danger of losing sight of our dependence on God, and seeking to make a savior of activity. We need to look constantly to Jesus, realizing that it is His power which does the work” (_The Desire of Ages_, p. 362).

What we are too quick to forget is that God is our source of spiritual power. Without Him, our efforts are in vain: “Unless the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain who build it” (Psalm 127:1). Therefore we are not wasting time when we spend it with God. On the contrary, we are wasting time if we labor all day without first receiving His Spirit and securing His blessing. “Every morning take time to begin your work with prayer. _Do not think this wasted time_; it is time that will live through eternal ages. By this means success and spiritual victory will be brought in. . . . The hands of every worker must be strengthened, his heart must be purified, before the Lord can use him effectively” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 7, p. 194; emphasis supplied).

When we are Christ’s, “we feel that our highest place is at the feet of our Savior” (_Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, p. 15). Nothing in our lives is more important than the time we spend alone with God. No work is more urgent. Our greatest achievement and our most effective method is what happens on our knees before God: “The greatest victories gained for the cause of God are not the result of labored argument, ample facilities, wide influence, or abundance of means; they are gained in the audience chamber with God, when with earnest, agonizing faith men lay hold upon the mighty arm of power” (_Gospel Workers_, p. 259).

### Faithful Intercession

Since the greatest victories are gained in the prayer closet, it follows that laboring for souls should always include praying for them: “Through much prayer you must labor for souls, for this is the only method by which you can reach hearts” (_Evangelism_, p. 342). So great is the advantage gained when we pray for others that Samuel considered it a sin to neglect doing so: “Far be it from me that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you” (1 Samuel 12:23).

When on earth, Jesus was our example in praying for those for whom He labored. In His longest recorded prayer He spent most of His time praying for others (see John 17). And when Peter was about to face his greatest trial, Jesus assured him that He had been interceding for him: “I have prayed for you, that your faith should not fail” (Luke 22:32).

Even now our salvation is dependent upon Jesus’ intercessions as our high priest: “Therefore He is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through Him, since He always lives to make intercession for them” (Hebrews 7:25). This text should give us great comfort and assurance. As our high priest, Jesus is the capable and faithful advocate who is always interceding in our behalf.

Jesus longs for us, as disciples who imitate their Master, to share His burden of intercession for the lost. He calls on us to pray for those who won’t pray for themselves: “This Savior, who prayed for those that felt no need of prayer, and wept for those that felt no need of tears, is now before the throne, to receive and present to His Father the petitions of those for whom He prayed on earth. The example of Christ is for us to follow. Prayer is a necessity in our labor for the salvation of souls” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 4, pp. 528, 529).

Paul, perhaps the greatest evangelist in the New Testament, followed the example of Jesus in praying for souls. To the converts in Ephesus, he wrote: “Therefore I . . . do not cease to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers” (Ephesians 1:15, 16). Similarly, he assured the Philippians: “I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine making request for you all with joy” (Philippians 1:3, 4). And to the believers in Rome he confidently declared: “For God is my witness . . . that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers” (Romans 1:9). What a powerful testimony of the value and importance of praying for souls!

Still, some Christians wonder what the purpose of praying for the same people again and again could possibly be. At least two reasons could be given. First, daily praying for others is a way of carrying them on our hearts. It keeps them always in view, kindling love and concern and prompting us to labor for them in different ways. “As we seek to win others to Christ, bearing the burden of souls in our prayers, our own hearts will throb with the quickening influence of God’s grace; our own affections will glow with more divine fervor; our whole Christian life will be more of a reality, more earnest, more prayerful” (_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 354).

> <callout></callout>
> Jesus longs for us to share His burden of intercession for the lost.

A second reason to pray for souls is that we’re in a spiritual battle: “For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places” (see Ephesians 6:12). One of the terms of this battle is that when we pray, God will do things He wouldn’t otherwise have done: “It is a part of God’s plan to grant us, in answer to the prayer of faith, that which He would not bestow did we not thus ask” (_The Great Controversy_, p. 525).

Our prayers for the salvation of others are not in vain. Though we may not always see the effects, yet behind the scenes God is working to answer our petitions (see Daniel 10:12-14). For this reason our prayers inspire fear among the demonic powers of darkness: “Satan cannot endure to have his powerful rival [Jesus] appealed to, for he fears and trembles before His strength and majesty. At the sound of fervent prayer, Satan’s whole host trembles” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 1, p. 346). Our prayers do make a difference!

#### Send Me!

In addition to praying for the salvation of souls, Jesus also instructed us to pray that the Lord of the harvest would send laborers into His harvest field (see Luke 10:2). Jesus doesn’t merely need more people who acknowledge the importance of the mission. What He needs is more people who will _do_ the mission. He’s looking for those who will say with Isaiah, “Here am I! Send me” (Isaiah 6:8). Good intentions or cheering from the sideline simply won’t finish the job.

If we are true disciples, we will embrace the mission of Jesus. We will pray, mingle, seek, and fish for souls. We will exert energy, courage, boldness, determination, and unselfish love to win them to Christ. We will “push” beyond our good intentions and comfort zones. Sadly, “many whom God has qualified to do excellent work accomplish very little, because they attempt little. Thousands pass through life as if they had no definite object for which to live, no standard to reach” (_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 331). So many of us are capable of so much more than we’ve been giving to God! How about you? Are you willing to be a worker for Him? Ask Him to help you become an active witness for Christ.

Hopefully, these three chapters on the foundations of witnessing have both challenged and encouraged you. They’ve provided the following keys to effective witnessing:

- **Witnessing requires spiritual life and power.** The secret to this power is consistent communion with Christ, through prayer and the study of His Word, and in consecration to Him.

- **Witnessing is an expression of our new identity in Christ.** More than a purely mechanical act, witnessing includes being loving and lovable Christians in all that we do.

- **Witnessing requires us to take the initiative.** It draws on the _active_ virtues of Christlike character to intentionally pray for, mingle with, and labor for souls.

In these chapters we’ve also focused on two types of preparation. The first is the preparation of our own hearts for spiritual success by beholding and abiding in Christ. The second is the preparation of others’ hearts through loving relationships, thoughtful deeds, and Christlike kindnesses. These intentional efforts to prepare the soil of the heart are a critical phase in the disciple-making process. They build confidence and trust, leading to a greater openness to spiritual truth. Now we turn our attention to the second phase in the disciple-making process, and the primary burden of this book, which is planting the seed of God’s Word through conversations, testimonies, invitations, literature, media, and house-to-house ministry.