---
title: Setbacks
subtitle: Week 10
---

One evening as a young girl walked home, a dark storm blew in. She quickened her pace, knowing there was still a way to go. A lone raindrop fell on her cheek, then another, and before she knew it, she was drenched. She started to run until she finally flung open the door of her home. Her father rushed toward her from the front window. As he wrapped a blanket around her shoulders, he asked her, “I saw you just now, in the rain. Why, with every bolt of lightning, did you stop running to look up and smile?” She gave another smile to her father, “Oh, I stopped to look up as God took my photo!”

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ What is your usual response when the storms of life come, or when you have setbacks in your relationship with God? Do you put your head down as the rain pelts upon your back, or do you look up, knowing and trusting that God is there?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

**Read** Mark 4:35-41—a story of how those closest to Jesus responded during a challenging time. Look for something **new** or **surprising** as you read, then share these with each other.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Discuss these insights:

+ Jesus falls asleep on what was likely the only pillow in the fishing boat, which the driver of the boat sat on at the stern. This person guided the boat to the destination. Jesus is in the position of the boat’s “driver,” but He falls “asleep at the wheel,” in what was likely one of the worst storms these fishermen disciples had ever experienced.
+ Not all of the disciples were new to sailing. Peter, James, and John were experienced fishermen. They knew the Sea of Galilee like the back of their hands, and they would have known how to combat a storm. “Absorbed in their efforts to save themselves, they had forgotten that Jesus was on board” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 334).
+ This is the only recorded Gospel account of Jesus sleeping. During one of the worst storms in their lives, in which the disciples are terrified and think they’re going to die, Jesus is asleep at the stern.
+ The disciples’ response in their time of crisis is “Do You not care … ?” They questioned Jesus’ character and His love for them in the midst of their storm.
+ When we feel hopeless, we can try to save ourselves. When we feel pain or loss, we can question or doubt God’s love and care for us. We can presume that He should act in a certain way, based on what we think and see from our human perspective. But, as with the disciples, it’s in life’s storms that God can work the greatest miracles.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

+ Talk about a time you’ve experienced God’s faithfulness, even when His apparent lack of involvement didn’t make sense to you. How did you trust Him in this situation?
+ Suffering never comes from the hand of God. It’s always from the enemy. Why is this so vital to remember as we grow in our walk with God? How will you communicate this to your child as they grow?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Extend

The Bible gives wise counsel about how we can respond to challenges and setbacks. Take a look at these short passages: Romans. 8:28; Philippians 4:4-13; James 1:2-4, 12; and 2 Corinthians 12:9, 10.

> “He is watching over you, trembling child of God. Are you tempted? He will deliver. Are you weak? He will strengthen. Are you ignorant? He will enlighten. Are you wounded? He will heal … ‘Come unto Me,’ is His invitation. Whatever your anxieties and trials, spread out your case before the Lord. Your spirit will be braced for endurance. The way will be opened for you to disentangle yourself from embarrassment or difficulty. The weaker and more helpless you know yourself to be, the stronger you will become in His strength. The heavier your burdens, the more blessed the rest in casting them upon the Burden Bearer” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 329).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray and Challenge]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
If you’re in the middle of a difficult time right now, remember that\
God cares for you. Take your Bible and a notebook, and for as long as is\
practical, be with God in a quiet place, perhaps outside in nature.