---
title: He Praises Her
date: 06/15/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> Her children arise and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praises her: Prov 31:28 NIV

### Observation

The book of Proverbs closes with an acrostic poem describing an “excellent wife” or a “virtuous” wife. The woman described here is married and seeks the best for her husband (vv. 11–12). She is industrious and hard-working, she takes care of her household (vv. 15; 31:21–22; 31:27) and finds success in a variety of fields (vv. 13–14; 31:16–19). She is generous to the poor (v. 20) and teaches wisdom (v. 26). Her children and husband praise her because her excellence surpasses other women (vv. 28–29). Lastly, she fears Yahweh (v. 30) and should be publically recognized and praised (v. 31).

### Application

One of the things I fin interesting about this verse is how this woman is honored by those who know her best – her husband and her children. I love the words of Ellen G. White in the devotional “My Life Today,” “The home should be to the children the most attractive place in the world, and the mother’s presence should be its greatest attraction (p.197)

How is it that these children call her blessed? I believe it has to do with the example of the husband, their father. Husbands can never give too much sincere praise to the one who spends her days in constant activity to make a good home. If he makes it his goal to honor her through words and actions, showing her the respect she deserves, supporting her decisions and opinions, treating her kindly and tenderly, his children will follow his example and treat her the same way. If, on the other hand, he is disrespectful, undermines her, makes fun of her, and in general treats her badly, his children will also begin to trat their mother that way. And by the way, this also become a generational malady – those children will treat their wife or spouse in the same demeaning way.

The woman who is treated in a kind, loving, special way, as a tender being, will respond accordingly. When a husband mistreats, neglects, or abuses his wife, he quenches her spirit a little at a time which only drives him to expect more from her even as she wilts away. On the other hand, the husband that treats his wife like a daughter of God – respectfully, loving, patiently, supporting and encouraging her – is helping her to grow and flourish. As a result, he ends up with a better wife and mother and therefore with a better home and family life. These type of man, and his children, arise and call her blessed, and praise her regularly and plentifully, not only in appreciation for all she does, but in support of what she is, and the result is a woman that deserves their love and praise. It is a positive cycle of mutual love and praise.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, help me to show appreciation, love, and praise toward my spouse, to build them up, to encourage and support them, not only because it is the right thing to do, but because by doing so my children learn a good example and because we will reap the results of a loving, respectful home.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._