---
title: A Song Of Love
---

> <p></p>
> “Many waters cannot quench love, nor can the floods drown it. If a man would give for love all the wealth of his house, it would be utterly despised” (Song of Songs 8:7, NKJV).

As I write it will soon be 40 years that Vesta and I have been married. Our union has been exceptionally happy and heaven blessed. We are the first to admit that it is the Lord’s doing, not ours.

After our heavenly Father, my earthly father de serves a large credit for our happiness. He did not have the advantage of being born into a happy home. His father and mother were divorced when he was a babe in her arms. But one day Dad gave his heart to God—totally. He resolved to serve God... nothing more, nothing less, and nothing else! Consequently God could guide him to my mother. She already had completely dedicated her life to God. So the Lord could guide her to dad.

Not even once through the years did I see them arguing. When I became adult I asked Dad, “Have you ever argued with Mother?” His answer surprised me.

“Yes, we have. But we have never argued in front of you children. There was not a problem big enough that we could not solve humbly on our knees before the cross.”

While we were children growing up in the home, my parents openly demonstrated their affection for each other. Even in their old age, when we brought them to our home, their love affair continued. Even the grandchildren witnessed this affection. Vesta and I have tried to follow their example since our wedding day. After all, life is uncertain. If some thing happens to us, we want our last memory from the other to be a happy one.

We are aware of the fact that in a sinful world things could change overnight. So if that is what life is, we “put no confidence in the flesh” (Phil. 3:3). We know this: “Unless the LORD builds the house, the builders labor in vain. Unless the LORD watches over the city, the guards stand watch in vain” (Psalm 127:1). We know that we are only safe if we com pletely give our lives to God every moment  and this is what we have decided to do. May this decision be yours as well.

_—Donald Mansell and Vesta West Mansell, Sure as the Dawn, p. 51_