---
title: "The Vine, My Source of Life"
date: 11/06/2025
---

_John DeVincenzo_

> <p></p>
> I am the true vine and my Father is the gardener. He cuts off every branch in me that bears no fruit, while every branch that does bear fruit he prunes so that it will be even more fruitful. John 15:1, 2, NIV.

What does it take to be spiritually healthy? I believe we can find the answer in the object lesson of the vine and branches in John 15. Jesus said, "If a man remains in me and I in him, he will bear much fruit; apart from me you can do nothing. . . . If you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be given you. This is to my Father's glory, that you bear much fruit, showing yourselves to be my disciples" (John 15:5-8, NIV).

My avocation is experimental horticulture, and to me these words of our Lord are among the most powerful He spoke. To a society today largely removed from agriculture they may not carry the same impact they had 2,000 years ago.

A cut-off branch (scion) is first completely severed from its parent vine, then grafted into the new vine. When the cell layers (cambium) match, the graft unites with the vine. Then begins a beautiful symbiosis, with the branch supplying photosynthates (sugars) to the vine, while the vine supplies minerals and other soil nutrients (such as nitrogen, phosphorus, etc.) to the branch.

The fruit is unique to the branch. The vine has only minimal influence over the character of the fruit. The genetics within the branch itself determine the type of fruit.

Fruit production begins when the branch is bent. Branches growing straight up do not produce fruit. They are pruned out (trimmed clean) so that the bent branches can receive direct sunlight and produce higher-quality fruit.

As I'm pruning, grafting, and then picking the fruit produced, I realize that the source of life for all of us is the same, but because of our different characteristics, we bear different fruit to meet better the wide variety of needs, purposes, and plans God has for His people.

God needs me to bend to His will so He can have fruit from His vineyard—that unique fruit that each of us is capable of giving.

> <callout></callout>
> Lord, I pray that You will graft, bend, and prune me so I will produce unique fruit for You to use for Your purposes.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._