---
title: Giving Connects
date: 05/07/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “Then he dreamed, and behold, a ladder was set up on the earth, and its top reached to heaven; and there the angels of God were ascending and descending on it.” –Genesis 28:12

Giving holds significant importance in our lives. When people exchange gifts, something profound happens which isn’t necessarily visible to the eye. It develops a bond between the two, drawing them closer to each other.

When God gave His only Son to this earth, something happened between heaven and earth. Perhaps you are familiar with the story of Jacob fleeing from the wrath of his brother and how he dreamed of the ladder extending from heaven to earth. This ladder represents Jesus. Ellen G. White wrote in The Acts of the Apostles that “this man of faith beholds the ladder of Jacob’s vision, representing Christ, who has connected earth with heaven” (p. 512, emphasis added).

By God giving us Jesus, He was connecting heaven with earth. He was connecting us with Himself. We can rightly say that a gift connects people. This is what happens when we give our Promise offerings (systematic offerings). We forge a connection with God. Moreover, we also create a network of connection with those people who benefit from our offerings.

### Appeal

As we give today and in the future to support God’s work, let us remember what the Promise offerings (regular and systematic giving) accomplish—they connect us with God and to those He sent His Son to redeem.