---
title: Wiping Away Tears
date: 04/23/2025
---

_Sylvia Jacobsen_

> <p></p>
> He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away. Rev. 21:4, NIV.

The door burst open as Eric's panic-stricken scream shattered the calmness of the Thursday afternoon. "Mama, come quickly. Richard's dying!"

Eric did not wait for any response from me, but quickly turned around and headed back into the orchard. I followed closely behind him. As we moved deeper into the orchard, I called after him, "Eric, what happened?"

"Richard fell off the tractor and it ran over him!"

"No, Lord, not this way," I prayed as I stopped, struck by the words Eric had said. "Lord, give me peace. Help me to know what to do!" In a moment I was beside Richard.

As we were waiting for the paramedics to arrive, 7-year-old Richard in a calm voice said, "Mama, I'm going to die."

As I prayed for the wisdom to respond, strength and courage welled up inside me as God spoke: "I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee" (Heb. 13:5).

Bending over his small, boyish frame, I asked, "Richard, you love Jesus, don't you?"

"Yes, Mama, I do," he said.

"You know Jesus loves you, Richard, don't you?" I asked.

"Yes, Mama. He loves me."

I began praying aloud for healing and God's mercy. The child repeated after me, "I'm sorry, Jesus, for all the wrong I ever did." Peace and tranquillity engulfed my son and me as we prayed there in the orchard. Never again would he speak after that heart-searching dialogue with me.

By faith my husband, Tim, and I know that Richard's prayer was heard and answered by Jesus, that all his sins were forgiven. We know that Richard sleeps resting in the arms of Jesus, and yet that does not take away the physical, mental, and emotional pain of missing him from day to day. And that is the beauty of a loving God who is willing to physically hold us in His arms and wipe away all our tears when we are hurting and suffering.

One day there will be no more death, sorrow, crying, or pain. Oh, what a blessed hope to look forward to!

> <callout></callout>
> Can you feel God holding you in His arms? He'll carry you over grief and pain and will never leave you or forsake you. Hold on to that promise.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._