---
title: Bad Decisions, Better Solutions
date: 04/07/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> And he said to them, "Pick me up and throw me into the sea; then the sea will become calm for you. For I know that this great tempest is because of me." Jonah 1:12

### Observation

God sent Jonah to go immediately to Nineveh, but instead of following God’s command Jonah, immediately, went the opposite direction. He evidently hired a ship to take him far from God’s appointed ministry, but while on this journey a storm arose that threaten to capside the ship and throw everyone overboard and to their death. When it was discovered that Jonah was the culprit for this storm, Jonah told them to throw him overboard. . . to Jonah, assisted suicide was easier to bear than the hard work of speaking for God.

The Jewish Study Bible explains: “Jonah probably thought that death was the best available way out of his mission. Had he died, he would have successfully escaped from God’s call. Of course, the readers know that God will not let this happen. As soon as Jonah is thrown overboard, they expect a divine action aimed at saving Jonah from death. Their expectations are fulfilled.” (p.1201).

God never intended to kill Jonah or the other people on board the ship, and even when Jonah tried to find the “easy” way out God had already prepared his rescue – a large fish.

### Application

We all probably have had a situation at one time or another which we have found almost overwhelming, almost hopeless, we can’t seem to find a clear solution, a way out of it. Some thoughts may have crept in: “I wish I were not here,” “I wish we were not married,” “I wish I were dead.” Many have taken the “easy” way out – divorce, abandoned the family, suicide. But while those steps might have gotten them some relief – maybe permanent relief in death – the results for those left behind are horrendous.

The effects of divorce, the breakup of a family, or suicide can be devastating to the children. I have known older adults who still experience the results of their parent’s suicide while they were children. There is a sense of guilt (Was it something I did?), rejection, (Why did he/she do that if he/she loved me? He/she must not have loved me!), shame (sometimes lying about the cause of death), feeling abandoned, questioning why it all happened, blaming themselves or others.

The wonderful thing about the story of Jonah, is that God does not abandon us even when we reject Him. God gives us not just a second chance but many chances. And God has an answer to our questions, a solution to our problems, a plan for our lives, a promise for our prayers. Even when we make bad decisions, God has better solutions.

Just this morning I read these words again: “Though difficulties, perplexities, and discouragements may arise, let neither husband nor wife harbor the thought that their union is a mistake or a disappointment. Determine to be all that it is possible to be to each other. Continue the early attentions. In every way encourage each other in fighting the battles of life. Study to advance the happiness of each other. Let there be mutual love, mutual forbearance. Then marriage, instead of being the end of love, will be as it were the very beginning of love.” (Ellen G. White, The Faith I Live By, p. 253).

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, remove all negative thoughts from our mind, especially those thoughts that cause us and others harm. Father, as You gave Jonah a second chance, as You gave the Ninevites a new opportunity, please give us a new chance to change, to make our lives better, to make our marriages healthier and happier.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._