---
title: The Stewardship of Health
date: 21/03/2025
---

_Max C. Torkelsen II_

> <p></p>
> Do you not know that your body is a shrine of the indwelling Holy Spirit, and the Spirit is God's gift to you? You do not belong to yourselves; you were bought at a price. Then honour God in your body. 1 Cor. 6:19, 20, NEB.

God's ownership of everything rests first on creation and second on redemption. It does not limit itself to material possessions—we human beings belong to Him because we are "bought at a price." God does not enforce His ownership—rather, He seeks to have human beings voluntarily recognize it. Such a recognition leads to the relationship between God and human beings called stewardship.

A steward controls the goods of the owner, but control is not ownership. Many have acted much like a rebellious teenager. They have confused God's purpose in making them stewards. Instead of learning to use life so they could be trusted with it for eternity, they have run away from God, saying, "My life is mine. I will use it as I please, eat what I want, and do what I want." Trouble, frustration, and eternal loss are the certain result.

Suppose someone gave you a beautiful cut glass goblet. Although it is very fragile, if you care for the goblet, it will last indefinitely. However, if you are careless with it, the chances are it will break and become useless.

On the other hand, suppose that you receive an equally beautiful silver goblet. That sturdy vessel can endure quite a bit of abuse without breaking. Even if you treat it roughly, it will probably last indefinitely.

The two goblets represent two alternatives of what a person might inherit in physical health. Some may have a more fragile constitution than others, but all will benefit from a careful preservation of the health resources entrusted to them.

Consider God's gift of health. He expects us, as stewards, to preserve that gift with every resource available to us. Health always faces constant assaults from factors over which we have no power. But we can control most of the influences that cause degenerative disease and premature death.

When men and women consider themselves God's steward they can rest in the assurance that regardless of circumstances, they are under the direction and protection of the owner of the world.

> <callout></callout>
> Am I caring for my body as a steward would, or as an owner would? What more could I do to be a good steward?

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._