---
title:  Where Do We Draw the Line?
date:   11/07/2017
---

**Evidence** Gal. 2:11–14

One of the prominent themes in Paul’s writings is the theme of good Christian conduct. Paul is concerned about how Christians conduct themselves. Following Jesus requires sacrificing passions we have that do not portray the character of Christ. For example, when two people get married they are declared one (Gen.2:24).They naturally end friendships that would disrupt their marriage, and they refrain from old habits that would destroy the relationship with their spouse. Marriage has its own set of rules that, when compromised, spearhead the downfall of the marriage. These rules, therefore, are not there to restrict freedom but rather to keep the relationship intact.

When Peter gets to Antioch, Paul does not deliberate on confronting him about certain issues that pertain to Christian conduct.Paul lived at a time when the Jews believed they were superior to any other nationality, race, and tribe. They even applied their class system to the things of God.

How many times have we accused fellow believers, sinners like us, of the same sins we do in secret?

Peter’s accusers were quick to condemn him, failing to notice that they also were at fault. How many times have we accused fellow believers, sinners like us, of the same sins we do in secret? Paul then confronts Peter concerning his withdrawal.If Peter was not living a life of compromise, he would have stood his ground and continued with the Gentiles. Instead he conveys to us his double standards and wavering faith. How is our conduct among those who are not of the same faith? Do we compromise Christ’s standards just so that we may fit in and be accepted?

Christ encourages us to be the light of the world (Matt.5:14).We, therefore, need to stand firm on His principles without compromising them. By defying any of God’s laws, we are putting a dent in His character and declaring that He is not a perfect God.

**React**

`1. How can Christians have freedom while not compromising the truth of the gospel?`

`2. How do we treat new converts within the church—are they nurtured well?`

`3. How can we be wary of not falling into the pit that Peter’s accusers were in?`

_Sanelisiwe Nkomo, Pretoria, South Africa_