---
title: Sabbath Afternoon
---

#### Introduction

We have spent the last six weeks seeking a closer walk with God. This week we will discover that when we walk with God we are immediately called to and equipped for ministry. Christian discipleship has both a vertical and horizontal focus. It never has a self-centered focus.

The inward focus of our relationship with God is really a vertical focus. We look to God to discover who we are. We seek to grow in our relationship with Him as well as our information about Him. A natural extension of that growth leads to an outward focus—our calling to ministry. This calling is part of our discipleship. Our continued growth with God is dependent upon our involvement in the ministry to which He calls us.

As we focus on those around us, we do so in the context of what is happening in our encounter with God. We discover opportunities to minister. We sense the urge to be involved in ministry. At the same time, it can be frightening. We wonder if we can do anything of value. We are afraid we are not able, or we think others are more talented.

Scripture describes the Christian as a functioning part of the “Body of Christ.” Within God’s Church the term “inactive Christian” is a contradiction—an oxymoron. The biblical truth is simple. God calls us to ministry. He equips us for ministry. And He empowers us for ministry. You and I are important parts of His Body.

Every member is a minister. Every member is a priest. We have direct access to God. We don’t have to go through another human being to find forgiveness and experience God’s grace. But that is not all that is involved in being a priest or minister. Priests never exist to serve themselves. They exist to minister to others.

Out of our personal walk with God, we are equipped to minister to others around us. The only questions are where and how? God even answers these questions. He places us just where He wants us so that we can be part of His process of building up His Church. He gives us spiritual gifts with which to minister. He then invites us to be involved in ministry. It is our responsibility to discover our gifts and put them to work.

Our gifts will be different. Each of us has a different role to play. But each of us is equally important and needed. Every part of the body has a unique function to fulfill. God has designed His Church with us in mind. Best of all, He empowers our gifts and ministry with His presence. His promise to be with us came in the context of His commission to “Go . . . and make disciples.”

#### Objectives For This Week Our Objectives For This Week Are:

- To understand that every member is a minister.
- To understand the concept of spiritual gifts.
- To accept our calling to ministry.
- To begin exploring our calling to ministry and identifying our spiritual gifts for ministry.

#### Holy Habit—Scripture Memorization

Throughout the last seven weeks we have been exploring different Holy Habits or spiritual disciplines. These spiritual skills help open our lives to God’s presence. They become habits which give God room to transform us.

We began memorizing biblical verses with our very first week of this study. Now we want to explore the importance of this Holy Habit and a way of making it more effective.

Scripture memorization is one of the most powerful tools for shaping the mind. The Psalmist stated: “I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you” (Psalm 119:11, NIV). God’s Word is powerful. It can change our lives. Memorizing Scripture is one of the key tools for putting that power to work.

Regularly memorizing biblical passages has a number of benefits for our spiritual journey. These include:

- Saturating the mind with God’s Word.
- Providing more contact points for the Holy Spirit to work in our minds.
- Building new thought patterns in the brain. As we memorize Scripture, new thought patterns develop and grow.
- Connecting us with God. Memorized Scripture provides us with a solid foundation for our relationship with God.
- Because of how the mind works, it is helpful to have a memorization system. The following pointers are part of a systematic way of memorizing Scripture:
- Choose a Bible version to use as your regular version for memorization in order to re- enforce the memory and avoid confusion. It is better if you stay with the same version for all your memorization.
- Select the passage you wish to memorize. Choose a verse that has a special meaning to you or that has helped you in your relationship with God.
- Write out the passage on a card and carry it with you. Repeat the passage several times throughout the day to memorize it.
- Seek to be word perfect each time you repeat the passage. This will help you in transferring the passage to your long-term memory.
- Meditate on the passage as a way to internalize it. This will help make memorizing easier, and it will help make it more meaningful to your daily life.
- Review the passage the next day, then two days later, a week after that, and finally two weeks later. This review process will transfer the passage to your long-term memory.
- Use the passage in your ministry. This re-enforces the memory process and makes the Bible passage useful in helping others.

Memorizing is more difficult for some of us than for others. However, as we persist, we will discover that with practice it will become easier. The results in transformed lives are well worth the effort. Our lives will be changed, and God will use us to help change others.

#### Suggested Prayer

Here is a suggested prayer to help us start this week:

_Dear Loving Father, You have touched my life in special ways during the last six weeks. I continue seeking an even closer walk with you. Help me know you more. I open my heart to you. Help me understand more of what you have for me. Use me to touch someone else around me with your love. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

List below what you want to accomplish in your spiritual journey this week. Claim God’s presence and power to help make this happen.

` `