---
title: Sunday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our objective for today’s study is to discover who we are within the “Body of Christ.” We have an exciting new identity. We have a dynamic new role as vital parts of God’s Church.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear Lord, Help me with your presence throughout this day. Help me understand that you have a purpose for my life. Help me recognize who I am because of you. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse

Our memory verse for today is #13. We will again use the process we have used throughout the last six weeks.

> 1 Peter 2:9 (NIV)—“But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light.”

> 1 Peter 2:9 (KJV)—‘But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.”

#### Memory Verse Review

We continue our memory verse review process today with verse #6 (Matthew 11:28-30) and verse #12 (Galatians 6:1-2). Spend a few minutes reflecting on Matthew 11:28-30.

`How does being yoked with Christ shape your life today?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Once again it is time to go back to the Bible and explore what God has to say about us in our journey with Him.

`Read Luke 10:1-17—Reflect on this story of Jesus sending His disciples out to do ministry. Imagine that you were one of those disciples. What do you think your experience would have been? How would you have felt when you returned to Jesus?`

`Read 1 Peter 2:4-10—Compare this passage with Exodus 19:6. What does it mean for us to be a “holy priesthood” or a “royal priesthood?” How can we as priests declare God’s praises?`

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:20—What does it mean to be God’s ambassador?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Dear God, Help me to recognize who I am in Christ. Help me to live this day to your honor and praise. Help me to understand that you have called me to active ministry just as truly as you did your other disciples long ago. In Jesus’ name, Amen._