---
title: Monday
---

#### Today’s Objective

We are called to ministry. Today we want to study Jesus’ call to His first disciples to discover insights that will help us in our own ministries.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Loving Father, I come to you today to open my life to you. Teach me what it means to walk with you. Help me hear your call to ministry. Help me discover where you want me to minister today. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Our review of memory verses for today focus on verse #10 (1 Peter 3:15) and verse #13 from yesterday (1 Peter 2:9). Once again reflect on these passages.

`What insights do they give you as to your identity in Christ?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now it is time to turn to Scripture in order to understand our calling to ministry. Pray that God will give you a vision of what you can do in His name.

`Read Mark 3:13-15—According to this passage, what reasons does this passage tell us Jesus had in appointing twelve disciples?`

`What does this passage in Mark 3:13-15 tell us about the importance of ministry as part of discipleship?`

`Read Luke 4:16-21—What can we learn for our ministry from the focus of Jesus’ ministry?`

`Read John 14:1-14—What does this passage tell us about ministry and its source? In what ways might we be able to “do even greater things” than Jesus did during His ministry?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Dear Lord and Father, Help me to understand that I am called to ministry. Help me see someone around me today to whom I can minister in your name. Walk with me through this day and transform it with your presence. In Jesus’ name, Amen._