---
title: Tuesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our purpose today is to explore the fact that we are each gifted for ministry. God gives us spiritual gifts to be used in building up the “Body of Christ.”

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear God, Open my mind and heart today to hear your Word. Help me believe and understand that you have gifted me for ministry. Open my eyes that I might know how to serve you. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Today we review memory verse #9 (2 Corinthians 5:18-19). Spend a few minutes reviewing and reflecting on this passage.

`What can we learn about ministry from this text?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Scripture provides us room to grow with God. Let’s open the Bible and explore our giftedness for ministry.

`Read Romans 12:1-8—What do these verses tell us about ministry and how God equips us for ministry?`

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:4-11—What do these verses tell us about the purpose of our spiritual gifts and who determines what gifts we have?`

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:12-26—What are the implications of this passage for our ministries?`

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:27-31—Reflect on these verses and use them as a starting point for summarizing what you have learned today about your giftedness for ministry?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Dear Lord, You have gifted me for ministry. Yet I don’t always know what my gifts are or how to use them. Give me wisdom to understand. Grant me strength to serve. Walk with me through this day and transform it with your presence. In Jesus’ name, Amen._