---
title: Wednesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our purpose today is to better understand the spiritual gifts God gives to His Church. We want to explore the purpose of leadership gifts within the Body of Christ.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Loving God, You have called me to follow you as your disciple. Use this time to shape my heart. Draw me closer to you. Help me serve you during this day. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse

We have now come to memory verse #14 (Colossians 3:17). We will continue to use our memory and review process as we have during the last six weeks.

> Colossians 3:17 (NIV)—“And whatever you do, whether in word or deed, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.”

> Colossians 3:17 (KJV)—“And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.”

#### Memory Verse Review

We also want to continue our review process with verse #7 (Ezekiel 36:26-27) and #13 from Monday (1 Peter 2:9).

`Spend a few minutes reflecting on today’s verse. How can this shape your life and ministry today?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Once more it is time to open our Bibles. We want to study what the Scripture tells us about the role of leadership gifts within the “Body of Christ.”

`Read Acts 6:1-7—What does this story tell us about the need for different ministries and their function within the Church?`

`Read Ephesians 4:7-16—What do these verses tell us about the role of the pastor?`

`What is the purpose of the service given by God’s people in using their gifts? What will be the results?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Almighty God, It is amazing to think that you want to use me in your Church. I am excited to think about the gifts you have given me for ministry. Help me identify and use them. Walk with me through this day. Help me be open to your presence. In Jesus’ name, Amen._