---
title: Thursday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today we want to identify the purpose for all of our ministries. They really come back to one ultimate focus—making disciples—people who are passionately in love with Jesus Christ.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear God, Help me to know your love more today. Help me to love you more today. Teach me to love others around me. Open my heart that I might know Jesus today in a deeper way than ever before. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Our memory verses for review today are verse #11 (1 Corinthians 3:16), and verse #14 (Colossians 3:17). Once again, spend a few minutes reflecting on these two passages.

`How can these concepts change your walk with God?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

It is time to open God’s Word once again. We want to study and reflect on God’s purpose for ministry.

`Read Matthew 24:1-14—What do these verses tell us about the time in which we live? What does the last verse tell us?`

`Read Matthew 28:16-20—How important do you think Jesus’ final words to His disciples are and why?`

`Notice verses 18 and 20. What do these two verses tell us about the context of the gospel commission?`

`What do verses 18-20 tell us is the purpose of our call to ministry? What implications does this have for you?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Loving Lord, Help me remember that you have shared your presence with me for the purpose of helping others know and walk with you. Thank you for the privilege of ministry and for the promise of your power. In Jesus’ name, Amen._