---
title: Friday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our purpose today is to summarize our study of discipleship and ministry. We want to reflect on how God has fulfilled His promise that if we would seek Him, we would find Him.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear Loving Father, The last seven weeks have been an exciting journey with you. Help me to realize that this is only a beginning. Help me to see that you want me to know you even better. Open my eyes today to the wonder of your love and what you want to do in me. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Today we want to review memory verses #12 (Galatians 6:1-2) and #14 (Colossians 3:17). Once again, spend a few minutes reflecting on these two verses.

`How do they help you in your relationship with God and in your ministry?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

We want to continue our daily habit of turning to God’s Word for study and reflection:

`Read Matthew 12:15-21—What do these verses tell us about Jesus and His ministry? What can we learn from this passage to help us in our own ministries?`

`Read Ephesians 3:14-21—What can we learn from these verses about the foundation for any ministry?`

`What is the result of fully knowing the love of God? (See verse 19.)`

`What is God able to do for and through us? Who should get the glory?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Almighty God, We have come to the end of the Steps to Discipleship plan. Help me to know that this is not the end, but only the beginning. Help me to continue my daily time with you and your Word. Take my life. Help me walk with you as your disciple. In Jesus’ name, Amen._