---
title: Image-Bearers
---

_By César and Carolann De León_

### The Text

Genesis 1:26-27

### Introduction

We are the crown, the glory of creation, and wonderstruck that David could not hide his astonishment for God’s creative power when he wrote about his boundless awe and reverence at God’s creation, “When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place, what is mankind that you are mindful of them, human beings that you care for them? You have made them a little lower than the angels and crowned them with glory and honor. You made them rulers over the works of your hands; you put everything under their feet: all flocks and herds, and the animals of the wild, the birds in the sky, and the fish in the sea, all that swim the paths of the seas. Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth!” (Ps. 8:3-9).

The creation story begins in slow motion, where the world’s formless and empty darkness takes center stage. It is almost as if, from the beginning of our existence, God wants to convey a message of what happens when the presence of God is missing, and His powerful manifestations have not yet been experienced: _formlessness, emptiness, and darkness_. Every time God is left out of our human experience, every time we venture to exist without God’s divine relational presence, we will end up unstructured, undefined, empty, and in darkness. Some refer to this state as chaos, others experience meaninglessness, and some describe “a sense of darkness” in their lives.

Then, in the midst of the dark, formless emptiness, God manifested himself through the element of _light_, so fundamental to the sustenance of nature and humanity. What would our planet be without light? What would be of plants, animals, insects, oceans, and everything that dwells in them without the sun? Life on this planet would be completely extinct. There wouldn’t be humans who would reflect God’s glory and honor. There wouldn’t be anything to rule over, no flocks and herds, no animals of the wild, nor birds in the sky, no fish swimming the paths of the seas. We wouldn’t know just _how_ majestic the name of the Lord is in all the earth!

Just as much as we depend on the sun for all the biological, physiological, photosynthesis, and metamorphosis that happens under the sun, the human soul needs the presence of “The Light of the world” for optimal, holistic, image-bearing growth and maturity. “Through him all things were made; without him, nothing was made that has been made. in him was life, and that life was the light of all mankind. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it” (John 1:3-5).

#### Illustration

Sandra was a young Christian Seventh-day Adventist girl who grew up in South America. Since childhood, she dreamed of working in Hollywood, making movies and becoming rich and famous. God gifted her with striking, natural beauty. in her early twenties, after working hard for many years in her country, she found a way to move to Los Angeles, (USA) hoping to make her deeply cherished dream a reality. After months of failing to land a role in a movie and dozens of rejections by diverse movie agencies, she began working in a bar to pay her bills and support herself in her high-cost community.

With dwindling hope and fading dreams, Sandra’s life became meaningless. Darkness slowly seeped into her increasingly discouraged soul. She felt strangely disconnected from God, from her church, and from herself. One thing led to another, until one day, Sandra met a high-ranking witch who told her she “had been chosen” to become a rich and famous princess in the world of darkness. Sandra attended several occult meetings with this woman, which led her to be initiated as a sexual partner for a group of demons. Total darkness had overtaken Sandra’s life.

But the Lord loves His children and has promised not to abandon or forsake us (Heb. 13:5). The night before she was supposed to be officially dedicated to this new diabolic lifestyle, God gave Sandra a dream and told her, “Get out of this city. Get out of this country and go back to your country; otherwise, you will lose your soul and die.” The dream was so gripping that it left Sandra shaken up. The next day, instead of attending her inauguration as a “queen witch,” she returned to her country and desperately sought spiritual help. Sandra rededicated her life to the Lord again, returned to her church family, and began fighting intense battles with the enemy himself. Demons would show up at night to try to use her as a sexual object, and when she tried to resist them, they would try to asphyxiate her. Sandra persisted in constant prayer and sought the help of the church elders, who prayed and fasted for her until the day she was freed entirely from all satanic dominion. “The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it” (John 1:5, NIV). Satan’s work is to take every “good gift” we have received from the Father of Light and turn it into our destruction, especially our sexuality.

### Created in His Own Image

Our creation story progresses with the triumphant words of Gen. 1:26-27, “Then God said, "Let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness, so that they may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over the livestock and all the wild animals, and over all the creatures that move along the ground." So God created mankind in his own image, in the image of God he created them; male and female he created them.” There are several aspects of our humanity that bear witness to the fact that we were created in the image of God.

### God’s Functionality

1. When Moses asked to see God’s glory, God showed him His back. Moses exclaimed, “and he passed in front of Moses, proclaiming, “The Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness, maintaining love to thousands, and forgiving wickedness, rebellion and sin. Yet he does not leave the guilty unpunished; he punishes the children and their children for the sin of the parents to the third and fourth generation”(Exodus 34:6-7).
2. As image-bearers of our Creator God, we were created to be compassionate, gracious, slow to anger, and to abound in love and faithfulness. God relies on these image-bearing abilities to call His children back into a relationship with Himself. When calling Peter back into a relationship with Himself, Jesus asked Peter, “Do you love me?” (John 21:15-17). He asked three times, hoping Peter would deepen his understanding of the call Jesus was placing on his life. Lovingly and patiently, the Lord waited for Peter to arrive at a fuller meaning of what it would mean to be truly committed to feeding/serving the broken He loved so deeply.
3. Like our Creator, we also have the ability to reason. in Isaiah, God invites us to “Come and reason together” (Isa. 1:18) because He created us with the cognitive ability to reason and process. We enjoy the ability to have free will and to decide whether we will do good or evil. Because God is relational, He wants to enjoy a relationship with His post-fall children that is free of coercion, or intimidation.
4. Unlike the animal kingdom—we have the ability to believe with an objective living faith. God believed He could create a world inhabited by human beings who could remain faithful to Him and make the correct choice between good and evil. As part of the Plan of Redemption, He believed that Abraham’s seed could carry on the knowledge of His character from generation to generation and far beyond their ethnic group and, thus, become a blessing for the millions of people that would be called “the children of Abraham through their faith in Jesus.” Paul explains, “Understand, then, that those who have faith are children of Abraham” (Galatians 3:7).
5. When we choose to believe, we are adopted into God’s family. “Yet to all who did receive him, to those who _believed_ in his name, he gave the right to become children of God” (John 1:12). John confirms this fact in his gospel. “For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever _believes_ in him shall not perish but have eternal life” (John 3:16 NIV). The apostle Paul reaffirms in his epistle to the Romans the need to believe: If you declare with your mouth, “Jesus is Lord,” and _believe_ in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For it is with your heart that you _believe_ and are justified, and it is with your mouth that you profess your faith and are saved. As Scripture says, “Anyone who believes in him will never be put to shame.” For there is no difference between Jew and Gentile—the same Lord is Lord of all and richly blesses all who call on him, for, “Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved” (Romans 10:9-13).
6. When we accept our new identity as our Creator’s image-bearers, His Spirit empowers us to display His compassion, graciousness, love and faithfulness, slowness to anger, forgiving heart, thoughtfulness, and kindness. By faith in His loving power, we can exercise our image-bearing ability to reason and practice a living faith in Him.

### God’s Relationality

1. Our God is a relational God. His revelation to the human race is best described by a divinity manifested through three persons: Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. These three beings are united, distinct, independent in their personalities, and in perfect coexistence. They are linked through eternal love, grace, and unity as described by the Word of God, “May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all” (2 Corinthians 13:14, NIV). John tells us these three persons have been in a “relationship” since the beginning. “in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning (John 1:1-2 NIV).
2. The Trinity experience is like an eternal holy communion of the Father, Son, and Spirit sharing mutual love, honor, happiness, joy, and respect. They enjoy living in an eternal relationship of self-giving.
3. This is precisely the experience Jesus desired and requested from His Father to grant to his disciples. “That they all may be one, as You, Father, _are_ in Me, and I in You; that they also may be one in Us, that the world may believe that You sent Me. and the glory which You gave Me I have given them, that they may be one just as We are one: I in them, and You in Me; that they may be made perfect in one, and that the world may know that You have sent Me, and have loved them as You have loved Me” (John 17:21-23).
4. Relationship is the vehicle through which humans can best display the Image of God in the world. There is no better way to showcase our relationship with the Father but through the manner in which we relate to each other. “A new command I give you: Love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another. By _this_ everyone will know that you are my disciples, _if_ you love one another” (John 13:34-35 NIV). It is no wonder that John, the disciple that best connected with Christ’s love, wrote, “We know that we have passed from death to life _because we love each other_. Anyone who does not love remains in death” (1 John 3:14 NIV).
5. God is a relational God; thus, we are called to display the experience of the Trinity. It takes three to develop a true healthy relationship. This doesn’t happen unless there are three interrelating individuals. This is why a healthy, loving marriage needs _the vital presence of God_ for such to be experienced and displayed.
6. Image-bearing must become more than just an ontological concept. We were created to make the display of His image our _vocation_. What God does, we do. He loves, we love. He displays compassion, we display compassion. He forgives, we forgive. He heals, we become agents of His healing. Imago Dei (the image of God) becomes our primary calling, our life purpose and mission, our _vocation_. We can be teachers, dentists, nurses, bakers, bankers, etc., but as God’s image-bearers, our first and foremost calling is to display God’s loving character in our relationships.

### God’s Gender Assignment

1. The creation story shifted into a different rhythm when it came time to create Adam and Eve. The loving, patient, and all-gracious relational Creator was ready to enlarge His circle of relationships. From eternity to eternity, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit have been doing communion among themselves, and now it was time to create humans, created “just a little lower than angels” (Ps. 8:5). These new creatures were going to have God’s relational image. They were going to be wired with the capabilities to reflect the emotional, psychological, spiritual, and relational functions of their Creator. to best display the gloriously complete image of God, Adam and Eve were designed with differing genders to best experience and celebrate perichoresis. “Then God said, “Let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness, so that they may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over the livestock and all the wild animals, and over all the creatures that move along the ground.” So God created mankind in his own image, in the image of God he created them; male and female he created them” (Genesis 1:26-27 NIV).
2. The creation of a man and a woman was intentional. God wanted to create two beings that were equal in value, yet distinct. They, as image-bearers, were designed to function in unified harmony, like the trinity. God designed them with unique and functional sexuality. He created Adam from the ground, a male, and from Adam’s rib, He designed Eve. Both would enjoy the bliss of a harmonious relationship, different yet equal, who would be united in holistic oneness as sexual beings—while enjoying the creative power granted them to conceive and reproduce children--in their likeness--through their sexual union. Our sexuality is very good in God’s sight. Human sexuality is a good gift meant to draw us into a deeper level of knowing and being known (God, another, ourselves). God places a high value on the sexual relationship of a husband and wife. “Marriage should be honored by all, and the marriage bed kept pure, for God will judge the adulterer and all the sexually immoral (Hebrews 13:4 NIV). The only sexual activity recognized in the Bible as “pure, honorable, and not defiled” is the sexual activity that takes place within the marital relationship.
3. Sadly, the biblical account doesn’t end with the seventh day of the creation story; it is followed by the deep descent—The Fall—that changed, altered, and distorted everything about everything. While our sexuality is a product of God’s masterful design, after our descent into sin, it bears the full array of image-destroying consequences. We are all products of the epigenetic markings inherited by generations of post-fall consequences. “Parents leave maladies as a legacy to their children. As a rule, every intemperate man who rears children transmits his inclinations and evil tendencies to his offspring; he gives them disease from his own inflamed and corrupted blood. Licentiousness, disease, and imbecility are transmitted as an inheritance of woe from father to son and from generation to generation, and this brings anguish and suffering into the world and is no less than a repetition of the fall of man...” We all—to one degree or another—have experienced the ramifications of the Post-Fall consequences which have altered our pre-fall perspectives, biology, gender, epigenetics, family system experiences, thought patterns, emotional response patterns, attitudes, values, behaviors and relationship patterns—especially our ability to give and receive love.
4. “The interplay of societal attitudes and beliefs, cultural structures, and biological factors shapes the inauthentic sexuality inherent in our fallen human condition” (Balswick, 2021, p.217). After the fall, every aspect of our humanity—including our sexuality—was distorted from God’s original design. The Fall radically affected God’s original creative design. Adam and Eve experienced a breakdown in the way they saw, perceived, and processed everything, including God, themselves, and each other. Their mental, emotional, physical, and relational capacities were forever morphed by sin. The enemy has, throughout history, used _everything_ and _anything_ he can—including our sexuality to destroy us. His rebellious kingdom is set on inciting power inequities, gender conflict, relational struggle, and unbearable pain. Our post-fall brokenness is evident in our marriages, our families, and our churches through the all-too-common reprehensible acts of sexual, physical, and emotional abuse and neglect experienced by far too many of us.
5. It has become difficult, at best, to achieve an authentic sexuality in the midst of these soul-distorting influences. Toxic masculinity has infected God’s original purpose that men would display the covenant-keeping, loving, gracious, forgiving, empowering, intimacy-seeking character of God. The Western response to post-fall systemic female oppression has been, at its core, a cry for social, economic, and political rights and freedoms withheld based on gender. “Our world has become an imperfect place, and we have become imperfect in our sexuality. Some people suffer from deficiencies in the genetic package they have inherited; some lack sexual wholeness because of inadequate socialization in the home and community; some are victims of social ills such as rape, pornography, cruelty, deprivation, and emotional disconnections” (Balswick, 2021, p.224). How deeply crushed the heart of the Father, Son, and Spirit must be through countless generations of senseless destruction and devastation.
6. Alterations in our sexuality have taken a variety of forms as a result of complex, interconnected epigenetic, sociocultural, biological, and post-trauma realities. Far too many people have experienced heart-breaking experiences that have resulted in devastating sexual brokenness. This is especially true when these traumatic experiences have occurred in early development and have resulted through non-consensual sexual encounters that have been deeply harmful, creating scars that make their healing journeys a long-term process.

### Conclusion

1. When attempting to understand post-fall sexuality, one must consider the countless ways sexual development has been impacted through the centuries by epigenetics, biology, and socio-religious-cultural factors. Our post-fall human sexuality is also a product of an intricate and flawed developmental process that takes place in our less-than-perfect families. The truth of the matter is that all post-fall families—from the healthy and functional to the toxic and dysfunctional—are also influenced by post-fall physiological, psychological, social, and cultural factors. “We need to be aware that “sexual authenticity” is most “attainable” for those who are born with a normal genetic and physiological makeup, who are socialized in a home where parents display healthy attitudes regarding sexuality, and who live in a community where societal values are consistent with biblical teachings” (Balswick, 2021, p.223).
2. Isaiah offers us an accurate post-fall reality check: “Your head is injured, and your heart is sick” (Balswick, 2021, p.223). You are battered from head to foot—covered with bruises, welts, and infected wounds— without any soothing ointments or bandages” (Isa.1:5-6 NLT). For sin-bent image-bearers like me, this description is easy to disavow. “I’m not that messed up,” we may conclude. It is difficult, if not painful, to accept that we are less like our Creator than we would like to think. Accepting our own failures and acknowledging how far from the mark we truly are requires holy humility daily. It is only as we can see ourselves as broken-by-sin, beloved children of God as described in Jeremiah’s unedited but accurate word-picture, that we will earnestly pray for God’s mercy and compassion as we resist the urge to judge and condemn our broken-by-sin brothers and sisters. Filled with the glorious humility of Christ—our sin-free Redeemer—we will be eager to pray like Jeremiah: “Heal me and I will be healed, saved me and I will be saved, for you are my praise” (Jer.17:14).
3. “An understanding of God’s design for human sexuality becomes increasingly important if the individual is to construct a truly meaningful, authentic sexuality. Because the meaning of sexuality is learned within a social context, it is imperative that the family and community powerfully live out and communicate God’s design for human sexuality” (Balswick, 2021, p.223). Our children and grandchildren are watching how we live and interact with each other, and the way we love and relate to God, others, and ourselves is the most transformational sermon many will experience. They will understand by living with us why Jesus summarized _all_ of the Law and _all_ of the prophets in the “great commandment of the law: “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the first and greatest commandment. and the second is like it: You shall love your neighbor as yourself. on these two commandments hang all the Law and the Prophets” (Matt. 22:37-40).
4. The journey towards sexual authenticity in a broken world is complex. We all, to one degree or another, carry complex epigenetic injuries that need to be acknowledged, grieved, and then surrendered to the ultimate Healer as we yearn to authentically express our sexuality in relationships that display the glorious image of God. No matter where we fall on the healthy vs. unhealthy sexuality spectrum, we are all sinners in desperate need of an ongoing mind, heart, and soul restoration. It is only through God’s compassionate healing interventions that we can experience hope and a bright future.
5. Marriages, families, and church communities have the privilege of displaying God’s ideal for human love and sexuality while concurrently exemplifying Christ’s compassion and genuine love for those struggling with sexual brokenness. Our image-bearing relationships must be redemptive. It is through our relationships that we can model Jesus’ attitude towards broken people. “For God so loved the world. . .” (John 3:16). We are sent out as Christ’s disciples—God’s image-bearers—as we sacrificially care for and love broken people like us. We are not sent to judge people’s lives. Our all-knowing Judge and Attorney is in charge of that. We are sent to love Christ’s broken sheep right where they are and, through our extravagant, image-bearing compassion, love, and mercy, lead them to a living relationship with our Redeemer, who will choreograph a healing journey unlike anything we could plot out given our limited understanding.
6. As image-bearers, let us not cease praying that God will continue to heal _us_, restore _us_, and redeem _us_ so that we can bring supreme honor and glory to His name, not only through our sexuality but through _every_ area of our lives so that others may experience Jesus. Amen.

#### References

Balswick, J. O., Balswick, J. K., & Frederick, T. (2021). The family: A Christian perspective on the contemporary home (5th ed.). Baker Academic.

Balswick, J. O., Balswick, J. K., & Frederick, T. (2021). The family: A Christian perspective on the contemporary home (5th ed., p. 224). Baker Academic.

Balswick, J. O., Balswick, J. K., & Frederick, T. (2021). The family: A Christian perspective on the contemporary home (5th ed., p. 223). Baker Academic.

White, E. G. (1952). The Adventist home. Pacific Press Publishing Association. (Original work published 1952).

NOTE FROM THE AUTHORS

During the prepubescent stage, boys learn a _boy code_ that teaches them to be strong, competitive, and sexually aggressive. in contrast, girls learn a _girl code_ that teaches them to be nice, cooperative, and sexually modest. There are also significant differences in levels and types of hormones in boys and girls. Testosterone levels in boys and high estrogen levels in girls, these hormones set the stage for secondary sexual characteristics such as pubic hair, breast and hip development, muscles, etc. Most boys find their masculine identity in male-typical behavior, and girls in female-typical behavior. These behaviors tend to be impacted by parental values and spiritual teachings.

_César De León, PhD, Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist and Carolann De León RN, MS in Marriage and Family Therapy, MAPM, are directors of the Department of Family Ministries of the North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists, Columbia, Maryland, USA._