---
title: Changing Your Thinking
date: 06/01/2025
---

_Elden M. Chalmers_

> <p></p>
> Search me, O God, and know my heart; test me and know my anxious thoughts. See if there is any offensive way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. Ps. 139:23, 24, NIV.

A fundamental law of psychological well-being is that you become what you think you are. Your thoughts are incredible motivators as your thinking shapes your behavior. Therefore, it is vitally important to guard the avenues of your mind so you don’t allow Satan to flood you with guilt, discouragement, anxiety, and depression.

Here’s a five-step plan to safeguard your mind from Satan’s attacks.

First, develop the habit of thinking of good things—interesting things: your successes, achievements, opportunities for service, people in need whose lives you can brighten.

Second, develop the habit of looking at every problem and difficulty as a stepping-stone to victory. I have never forgotten the cartoon of a boy with a saw looking with dismay at a piece of board with a notch he had just cut out to fit around a post. It was obvious he had cut out the wrong side of the board, but I’ll never forget the caption: “Even a mistake shows you’ve tried!” Look at every mistake as something you can profit from—a stepping-stone to victory.

Third, feel yourself toughening up the muscles of your character as you tackle the unpleasant tasks, the mundane chores, the messy jobs. And then take as your motto, “I’ll always be true to my conscience.”

Fourth, make a habit of smiling at people from the inside. Practice feeling your happy thoughts toward the people you meet.

Fifth, memorize key scriptural promises that can carry you through periods of discouragement or despondency. Here are three:

- “The righteous cry out, and the Lord hears them; he delivers them from all their troubles. The Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit” (Ps. 34:17, 18, NIV).
- “Blessed is the man who perseveres under trial, because when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life that God has promised to those who love him” (James 1:12, NIV).
- “Be strong and courageous. Do not be terrified; do not be discouraged, for the Lord your God will be with you wherever you go” (Joshua 1:9, NIV).

> <callout></callout>
> Ask God to help you hold on to the promises in Psalm 34:17, 18; James 1:12; and Joshua 1:9 and to give you victory over your discouraging and anxious thoughts.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._