---
title: A Wounded Healer's Prayer
date: 05/21/2025
---

_Wil Alexander_

> <p></p>
> "Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassion and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our troubles, so that we can comfort those in any trouble with the comfort we ourselves have received from God. 2 Cor. 1:3, 4, NIV.

Loving Lord God:

In these quiet moments before I begin another day with ill and hurting people . . .

May it be that out of all of the thoughts, the words, the silences of where I walk and out of the mystery and wonder of being a health professional, Your voice will speak to me in ever-deepening ways to help me know how much a tired and very sick but wonderful world needs what You can do through me.

Help me to know that there are words of truth and healing that may never be spoken unless I speak them; and acts of compassion and care that may never be done unless I do them.

Help me never to mistake success for victory, or failure for defeat.

Help me to tolerate those times of not knowing, not curing, and not healing.

Help me to face the reality of my sometimes powerlessness and my need of Your strength and power.

Help me to remember that behind every smile lurks a tear; in every hug, loneliness; in every friendship, distance; and in all forms of light, darkness. That without You and without love there is only the tear, the loneliness, the distance, and the darkness.

As I go now to be with my patients, may my heartbeat be warm and my own, may my hopes not be crushed or wasted, may my love not be shattered, may my commitment not be broken.

And may the day come soon when my patients and I stand before Your throne all healed and whole and praising Your name forever.

Amen. 

> <callout></callout>
> Is there someone you know who could benefit from your healing touch? Pray this prayer, and may God give you Holy Spirit energy and wisdom to comfort the wounded.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._