---
title: Rethink Church
---

_Stephan Sigg, D.Min._

“In church I always feel as if I do not comply.” This is what my daughter said when we had a rather random chat about her local church experience. Back then she was about 15 years old. Interestingly, she couldn’t specify and identify directly the things that nurtured her impression. “It is everywhere.” Although a teenager is almost by nature vulnerable to feelings of inferiority, her summary struck me. I was a conference youth director at that time, and my daughter’s feelings echoed many other similar talks I had with young people about church. Programdriven as I was, my immediate reaction has been to ask: “What can we do?” “What are the things we need to change?” It took me some time to realize that it is less about the things we do than about the people we are.

Those teenage feelings come from deep within and are mainly triggered by the spiritual-social environment we create as a church. We make them feel this way because we are the church, and it reflects who we are and what God we follow. Finally, the church is God’s society in this world, a reflection of His kingdom and a living expression of the transforming power of His love. The church “is a social reality that is called to embody the gospel”<sup>1</sup> and as such the church is inherently both, a spiritual and social entity. We cannot have the one without the other. Spiritual growth, therefore, goes hand in hand with social growth. Growing in our relation to God implies growing in our relation to each other, thus forming a new community that follows the way of Jesus in all aspects of life. Biblically speaking, this interdependency is a simple truth: you cannot love God but hate your brother (1 John 4:20, 21). Serving God implies serving my neighbor. Yet in discussions about church we are repeatedly confronted with the assertion that church is about God, not about people. Such an understanding reduces the church to a place we go to worship and individually ponder and adore God. The notion “I’m in worship” usually informs us that I am sitting in the pew attending or participating in a religious program. But church, the ecclesia, is first and foremost a people, not a worship program or a set of spiritual traditions and practices we need to uphold and defend. Although it is hurtful, maybe the current wave of church dropouts can serve as a wake-up call for us to rethink what church is all about and to reconnect with our New Testament roots.

### Church is Relational

Despite the fact that the phenomenon of deconversion, especially among young people today, is complex and multifarious, there is a common consent in studies about and among dropouts that meaningful relationships and the experience of community are crucial factors regarding church affiliation and faith identification. Whether a faith or believe system is seen as coherent and plausible relies not only on the facts (the truths) and individual experiences but also, and maybe even more so, on belonging to a loving community that authentically reflects as well as relevantly imparts and embodies this faith.

We learn this also from families of faith. The nucleus family is, idealistically speaking, the basic loving human community we are born into. Cross-generational studies regarding the transmission of faith now confirm that “the quality of the relationship between parent and child is a crucial component of the degree to which transmission of religion occurs. When children perceive their relationship with parents as close, affirming, and accepting, they are more likely to identify with their parents‘ religious practices and beliefs, while relationships marked by coldness, ambivalence, or preoccupation are likely to result in religious differences.“<sup>2</sup>

This linkage between successful faith transmission and loving relationship is not only a central feature of the nucleus family—it also applies to the church as an extended family. These are the two social entities God directly constituted, the family and the church. This is where life (and faith) is protected, nurtured, cared for, fostered, and equipped for further expansion. “If formation in faith does not happen there, it will—with rare exceptions—not happen anywhere.“<sup>3</sup> Empirical research in the field of youth retention widely demonstrated “that spiritual and religious communities and role models represent an enormously significant resource for the value formation and development of religiousness in emerging adults.“<sup>4</sup> And yet, too many young people are leaving.

However, the vast “majority of young dropouts are not walking away from faith, they are putting involvement in church on hold.”<sup>5</sup> In his longitudinal study among young Adventists from 15 to 25 years of age Roger Dudley has already pointed to this fact by summarizing: “The reason for leaving and staying away from the church is not doctrinal but relational.”<sup>6</sup> In this light, the current dropout rates among young people can be understood like the temperature on a thermometer telling us as a church that we have a sick patient—and we are the patient. The young people do not just leave the church, they leave what we made the church to be. Therefore, before asking What we can do to stem the loss of young people? we should ask What is God’s idea of His church? If we ask Jesus, it is all about being God’s family.

### The Family of Jesus

It happened as Jesus was teaching in a house packed with people that, all of a sudden, the crowed got uneasy, and the information was passed to Jesus: “Your mother and brothers are outside looking for you” (Mark 3:32, NIV). What happened next must have been quite a shocking moment for Jesus’ disciples and compatriots. Everyone would have understood if Jesus had stopped His lesson and paused for a moment to meet His family, since family at that time was everything.<sup>7</sup> Culturally it would have been the appropriate reaction to give everyone a break and to follow the call of His mother and brothers. But that is not what Jesus did. Rather He used the situation for a very profound teaching. He was even ready to embarrass His mother. “Who are my mother and my brothers?” (verse 33, NIV). In the course of His argument Jesus refers to those sitting at His feet and who are ready to follow God’s will as His mother, sisters, and brothers. True family is not a question of blood relationship but of “Jesus relationship.” We, the _ecclesia_, are family, and that means a hundred times more than any natural kinship.“

See, we have left all and followed You” (Mark 10:28, NKJV), Peter said, so “What about us?” What Peter means with “we have left all” refers to their families and their life script in the context of their kinship. Jesus took up that line of thought and responded: “Assuredly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands, for My sake and the gospel’s, who shall not receive a hundredfold now in this time—houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions—and in the age to come, eternal life” (verses 29, 30, NKJV). Despite the fact that as followers of Christ we might even face persecution, what we gain by following Jesus is true family. We will have a hundred times more fellow sisters and brothers, mothers and spiritual mentors, role models and spiritual “children” (Philemon 10; 1 John 2:1). What Jesus promised His disciples was not just the eternal life in the age to come but already in the here and now, the relational and social capital of His church, us—_God’s_ family.

There is in fact no other biblical metaphor in the New Testament that is as profound and fundamental for the understanding of the nature of the church as the family. Family language permeates the paulinic and pastoral letters, and it defines the very nature of our relationship to God, our Father. Yes, there is also the body of Christ (1 Corinthians 12:12-27; Ephesians 4:4), but this metaphor just underlines the relational nature of the church and the connectedness and interdependency of its members under the authority of Christ. Yes, there is also the association with the Temple building (not with its cultus!), which is understood as the ultimate dwelling place of God and that is built up by God’s people who are united and who do live together, Jews and Gentiles, in love and peace (Ephesians 2:11-22; see also Revelation 21:3). The guiding theme when it comes to the church in the New Testament is relationship. As our God is love and a relational being (three but one), by His very nature His church is a relational entity in its very nature, and the family metaphor best encompasses the many facets of such a human and divine community. In this light the church is characterized as an intergenerational faith community of Christ followers where people matter more than programs or buildings. In fact, church is less about sacred buildings we are going to contemplate or spiritual programs we are organizing or attending and more about communities of faith we are living and belonging to and where the gospel is alive. The spiritual nature of the church as God’s family inherently encompasses the idea that the church is social, communal, and relational. It is about people, because family is about people and our heavenly father is about people. Just note how Ellen G. White describes God’s vision for His church: “The church of Christ, enfeebled, defective as she may appear, is the one object on earth upon which He bestows in a special sense His love and His regard. The church is the theater of His grace, in which He delights in making experiments of mercy on human hearts. The Holy Spirit is his representative, and it works to effect transformations so wonderful that angels look upon them with astonishment and joy. Heaven is full of rejoicing when the members of the human family are seen to be full of compassion for one another, loving one another as Christ has loved them. The church is God’s fortress, His city of refuge, which He holds in a revolted world. Any betrayal of her sacred trust is treachery to Him who has bought her with the precious blood of His only begotten Son.”<sup>8</sup>

### The Church as God’s Family is Mission

As God’s family we are called to be an open testimony to the world (John 13:34, 35), as well as to the heavenly realm for the transforming power of God’s truth, which is seen in the life of Christ and expressed by the Spirit in grace and love. In fact, “the church remembers and tells and embodies the story of Jesus Christ. It shows the world what God calls the world to be.”<sup>9</sup> Through the church the gospel of Jesus Christ does not only become visible but also tangible in this world and among the people.

Faced with high dropout rates of young people who struggle with their church experience and an increasing suspicion toward organized religion in society, we are somehow forced to rediscover the high communal and relational value of being a Jesus family, God’s church. I believe that the growing realities of a post-Christian era and secular culture, especially in the Western world, are forcing us to rethink church and to reconnect with our roots in the faith communities of the early Christians. Finally, that is where we come from. It actually turns out that one of the main factors that the church grew exponentially in the first three centuries was their way to live their family-of-God identity as an open testimony of the gospel in their society.

In line with the New Testament understanding of the church, the early Christians were coined by the idea of being an extended family. It was not just because of the pressures from a pagan culture that the early church communities met in private homes and followed the common social formula of sharing commensality (deipnon), followed by the symposion, where everyone, not just the men (as generally the custom in society), participated and contributed (see Colossians 3:12-17). It corresponded with their understanding of church. “For the early Christians, the church was a family—in word and deed.”<sup>10</sup> The impressive growth of the early church cannot be explained solely by the individual testimony of Christians or the liberating power of the message of Jesus (in contrast to all the pagan gods). Indeed, one of the most convincing reasons was the symbiotic community of believers—people with different social and ethnical backgrounds, ages, and genders.

“Against all odds the early Christians won thousands to the Savior and ultimately triumphed completely over competing religious options in the Roman Empire. And we can trace much of the vitality of the Christian movement to the surrogate family values and behaviors that characterized local church life.”<sup>11</sup>

In view of the early Christian church growth and based on Jesus’ statement that “all will know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another” (John 13:35, NKJV) Bryan Stone is certainly right to say that “the most evangelistic thing the church can do . . . is to be the church, not merely in public but as a new and alternative public; not merely in society but as a new and distinct society, a new and unprecedented social existence. On this view, any evangelism for which the church is irrelevant, an afterthought, or instrumental cannot be Christian evangelism.”<sup>12</sup> The relational and communal nature of the church is not in conflict with a mission focus but rather builds its fundament.

Building intergenerational faith communities that embody the gospel of Jesus and thus the “truth,” therefore, must be at the top of our missional agenda. This is a biblical mandate not only because times are changing, and people are much more asking for authentic communities and good ways to live than just true doctrines, but also because it is rooted in the very nature of the God we follow.

The “family of Jesus” must be a living reality, and if we truly understand ourselves as God’s family, we are not just committed to uphold the truth in this world, but to live it. Finally, we have decided to follow Jesus. Therefore, we need to be more than being right, since “the purpose of the commandment is love from a pure heart, from a good conscience, and from sincere faith” (1 Timothy 1:5, NKJV). Regardless of our personal piety “in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision avails anything, but faith working through love” (Galatians 5:6, NKJV). As God’s people and the family of Jesus, we are called to reflect God’s character of love to the world. This happens through the works of love and in service to the people. In this context “the church doesn’t have a social strategy, the church is a social strategy.”<sup>13</sup> Ellen G. White has expressed it this way: “The church is God’s appointed agency for the salvation of men. It was organized for service, and its mission is to carry the gospel to the world. From the beginning it has been God’s plan that through His church shall be reflected to the world His fullness and His sufficiency. The members of the church, those whom He has called out of darkness into His marvelous light, are to show forth His glory. The church is the repository of the riches of the grace of Christ; and through the church will eventually be made manifest, even to ‘the principalities and powers in heavenly places,’ the final and full display of the love of God.”<sup>14</sup>

In this light and understanding of being church, it can never be our primal task in our thinking about nurture and retention just to come up with running better worship services and better spiritual programs, but rather to better be and provide a spiritual home for people of all ages. As God’s family the church is a loving, caring, and nurturing community that empowers and supports its members to connect with each other, and live up to their full potential in Christ. Just like a family, the church has to be intergenerational, with young and old working together for God’s glory. That Jesus identifies with us as His siblings is pure grace and a privilege that is hard to grasp. However, it also marks the fact that as our ultimate Brother, Jesus is our model we follow, and in Him we learn to understand what family we belong to.

_Stephan Sigg (D.Min., M.A.) is an ordained Pastor and President of the Swiss German Conference and the Swiss Union of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. He served ten years as a Conference Youth Ministries Director in Switzerland and seven years as Youth Ministries Director of the InterEuropean Division. In addition, Dr. Sigg was a full-time lecturer at the Friedensau Adventist University in Germany in the field of Applied Theology. He received his Doctor of Ministry at Andrews University with a special focus on youth evangelism in a postmodern context. He was the speaker of the satellite based youth evangelism Link2Life in 2002 and 2004 which has been broadcasted in the German speaking fields of Europe. Dr. Sigg is the initiator and author of iCOR (Intergenerational Church of Refuge, icor.church). iCOR is a value based church development initiative to support local congregations to reconnect with the New Testament vision of being God’s Family and a living expression of the Gospel. He is married since more than 30 years to Gabriela and proud father of two adult children. Stephan Sigg loves the mountains and all kinds of outdoor activities._

**Endnotes:**

<sup>1</sup> Alan Kreider, ”They Alone Know the Right Way to Live,“ in Mark Husbands and Jeffrey P. Greenman, eds., _Ancient Faith for the Church’s Future_ (Downers Grove, Ill.: InterVarsity Press, 2008), p. 184.

<sup>2</sup> Vern L. Bengtson, Norella M. Putney and Susan Harris, _Families and Faith: How Religion Is Passed Down Across Generations_ (New York: Oxford University Press, 2013), p. 98.

<sup>3</sup> Christian Smith and Patricia Snell, Souls in _Transition: The Religious and Spiritual Lives of Emerging Adults_ (New York: Oxford University Press, 2009), p. 286.

<sup>4</sup> Gina Magyar-Russell, Paul J. Deal, and Iain Tucker Brown, ”Potential Benefits and Detriments of Religiousness and Spirituality to Emerging Adults,“ in Carolyn McNamara Barry and Mona M. Abo-Zena, eds., _Emerging Adults’ Religiousness and Spirituality: Meaning Making in an Age of Transition_ (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014), p. 49.

<sup>5</sup> David Kinnaman, _You Lost Me: Why Young Christians Are Leaving Church . . . And Rethinking Faith_ (Grand Rapids: Baker Books, 2011), p. 27.

<sup>6</sup> Roger L. Dudley, _Why Our Teenagers Leave the Church: Personal Stories From a 10-Year Study_ (Hagerstown, Md.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 2000), p. 99. See also p. 39.

<sup>7</sup> Unlike our individualistic culture today, in Jesus’ time one’s identity, life script, and future were determined by the family and the kinship you belonged to. A son stepped into the footsteps of his father and was usually referred to as the “son of” so and so. In fact, there was no stronger relational bond than that to your parents, siblings, and relatives. The loyalty to your family was even more important than the loyalty to your spouse.

<sup>8</sup> Ellen G. White to S. N. Haskell, May 30, 1896.

<sup>9</sup> Graham Hill, _Salt, Light, and a City: Ecclesiology for the Global Missional Community, Volume 1_, Western Voices, 2nd ed. (Eugene, Oreg.: Cascade Books, 2017), p. 156.

<sup>10</sup> Joseph H. Hellerman, _When the Church Was a Family: Recapturing Jesus’ Vision for Authentic Christian Community_ (Nashville: B&H Academic, 2009), p. 117.

<sup>11</sup> Ibid., p. 214.

<sup>12</sup> Bryan Stone, _Evangelism After Christendom: The Theology and Practice of Christian Witness_ (Grand Rapids: Brazos Press, 2007), pp. 15, 16.

<sup>13</sup> Stanley Hauerwas and William H. Willimon, _Resident Aliens: Life in the Christian Colony_, 25th anniv. ed. (Nashville: Abingdon Press, 2014), p. 43. (Italics original.)

<sup>14</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Acts of the Apostles_ (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1911), p. 9.