---
title: Encouragement
subtitle: Week 7
---

Your baby needs your encouragement. Even though he does not yet understand the words you are speaking, he can understand your encouraging tone and supportive touch. When you laugh, squeal, and show excitement at each new milestone he meets, he is internalizing the idea that he is not alone, and that there are people who are happy and supporting him through his successes. As he grows, your loving encouragement serves as a template for him to understand the loving encouragement of God, his greatest cheerleader.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ Think of a time someone spoke words of encouragement that had a profound impact on you. Share the experience with someone next to you.
+ To “en-courage” your child is to give her courage to face life’s challenges. What is one specific life obstacle that you want your baby to have courage and confidence to overcome? What can you do even now to encourage your baby toward that end?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

+ **Read** Joshua 1:9 and John 16:33. At the heart of encouragement is the knowledge of Christ’s presence with us. What can you do to show your baby that Jesus is present in your home?
+ **Read** Ephesians 4:29. Here the word “edification” or encouragement is contrasted with “corrupt words.” What would it look like—in word or in action—to discourage our babies as they grow and explore?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Read the following quotes and share your thoughts with the group.

> “In every way encourage each other in fighting the battles of life” (Ellen G. White, _The Adventist Home_, p. 106).

> “[Children] need gentle, encouraging words. How easy it is for mothers to speak words of kindness and affection which will send a sunbeam to the hearts of the little ones, causing them to forget their troubles” (Ellen G. White, _The Adventist Home_, p. 196).

> “An approving glance, a word of encouragement and praise from the mother, will often cast a sunbeam into their young hearts for a whole day” (Ellen G. White, _Selected Messages_, book 2, p. 439).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

What if “encouragement” means more than just a few words, more than a quick “good job”? What if encouragement is your smiling presence casting a sunbeam over your little one’s efforts? This week, consider ways you can be more physically and emotionally present with your baby to be a continual encouragement to them.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Ask God to send the sunshine of His loving encouragement\
into your home. Open your heart to His presence so that every word,\
tone, and look will give courage to your baby.