---
title: Only One Thing to Fear
subtitle: Chapter 12
---

In chapter 7, “Our Mission,” we looked at the prophetic rise and mission of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. We reviewed how our history as a denomination was preceded by the urgent proclamation of the soon return of Jesus through the preaching of William Miller and many others. When Jesus did not return on October 22, 1844, the Advent believers (those who believed Jesus would return on that day, based on the 2300-day prophecy of Daniel 8:14) experienced what became known as the Great Disappointment. Out of that disappointment, however, the Seventh-day Adventist Church was soon born. This chapter will review in more detail the key events and developments that led to the biblical foundation and ultimate formation of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.

Why is it important to understand how God has led in our church’s history? As Ellen White so aptly states, it is because it would cost us too much should we ever forget. “In reviewing our past history, having traveled over every step of advance to our present standing, I can say, Praise God! As I see what the Lord has wrought, I am filled with astonishment and with confidence in Christ as leader. We have nothing to fear for the future, except as we shall forget the way the Lord has led us, and His teaching in our past history” (Life Sketches of Ellen G. White, p. 196).

We have nothing to fear, except as we forget. Let us, then, take time to remember how God has led, and His teaching in our past history.

### After the Disappointment

On October 23, the morning after the Great Dis­appointment, Hiram Edson, an Advent believer living in Port Gibson, New York, met with other believers in his barn to seek God for direction. He would later write, “We continued in earnest prayer until the witness of the Spirit was given that our prayer was accepted, and that light should be given” and “our disappointment be explained” (in C. Mervyn Maxwell, Tell It to the World [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1976], p. 49).

Later that morning Edson and a friend set out to visit and encourage some of their Adventist neighbors. Of his experience while passing through a cornfield, Edson writes, “I was stopped about midway of the field. Heaven seemed open to my view, and I saw distinctly and clearly that instead of our High Priest coming out of the most holy place of the heavenly sanctuary to [come to] this earth . . . , He, for the first time, entered on that day into the second apartment of that sanctuary, and that He had a work to perform in the most holy place before coming to the earth. . . . And my mind was directed to the tenth chapter of Revelation” (in Review and Herald, June 23, 1921, p. 5).

The Lord had answered their morning prayer for an explanation of the disappointment. They could now see that they had passed through the sweet then bitter experience described in Revelation 10 and that the sanctuary to be cleansed was not the earth, but the sanctuary in heaven (see Hebrews 8:1, 2, 5). Jesus had entered the Most Holy Place of heaven’s sanctuary for His final work as our high priest!

Two months later, in December of 1844, 17-year-old Ellen Harmon, later to be known as Ellen White, received her first vision while praying with a small group of women. She writes, “While I was praying at the family altar, the Holy Ghost fell upon me, and I seemed to be rising higher and higher, far above the dark world. I turned to look for the Advent people in the world, but could not find them, when a voice said to me, ‘Look again, and look a little higher.’ At this I raised my eyes, and saw a straight and narrow path, cast up high above the world. On this path the Advent people were traveling to the city, which was at the farther end of the path. They had a bright light set up behind them at the beginning of the path, which an angel told me was the midnight cry. This light shone all along the path and gave light for their feet so that they might not stumble. If they kept their eyes fixed on Jesus, who was just before them, leading them to the city, they were safe. But soon some grew weary, and said the city was a great way off, and they expected to have entered it before. Then Jesus would encourage them by raising His glorious right arm, and from His arm came a light which waved over the Advent band, and they shouted, ‘Alleluia!’ ” (Early Writings, p. 14).

This vision was a great assurance to the small band of Advent believers. It revealed not only that God’s hand was in the Advent movement, but that He would guide them safely home if they kept their eyes on Jesus. This was the beginning of Ellen Harmon’s ministry as a messenger of the Lord, in which she shared with the Adventist believers what God revealed to her in visions or dreams. At first she shrank from this task because her health was poor and she feared the opposition she might receive, but God promised to sustain her. James White, a 23-year-old Adventist preacher, soon began laboring together with Ellen, and in August of 1846 they were married.

### Becoming Established in the Sanctuary

Back in Port Gibson, Hiram Edson, O.R.L. Crosier, and F. B. Hahn were earnestly studying their Bibles to better understand the light given to Edson while he was walking in the cornfield. They studied the 2300-day prophecy in the light of the sanctuary and its services, the Day of Atonement, and the work of Jesus as high priest. Through these studies it became increasingly clear that on October 22, 1844, Jesus began a work of cleansing that would prepare God’s people for His return.

Crosier published their findings in the Day-Star Extra and sent it out to Adventist believers across the East Coast. When Ellen White received one of these papers, she was thrilled that God had revealed to them the very things He had been showing her! The doctrine of the sanctuary was established as one of the landmarks of our faith.

### A Complete System of Truth

Discovering the meaning of the cleansing of the sanctuary (see Daniel 8:14) was the key by which a beautiful chain of truth was revealed to the early Adventists. Subjects such as the judgment, the law of God, the Sabbath, and later the true understanding of what happens when people die were each brought to light through a proper understanding of Christ’s work in the heavenly sanctuary.

Ellen White explains, “The subject of the sanctuary was the key which unlocked the mystery of the disappointment of 1844. It opened to view a complete system of truth, connected and harmonious, showing that God’s hand had directed the great advent movement and revealing present duty as it brought to light the position and work of His people” (The Great Controversy, p. 423).

### Discovering the Sabbath

Early in the year 1844, in Washington, New Hampshire, Adventist preacher Frederick Wheeler decided to visit some of his parishioners. He stopped at the home of Rachel Oaks, a Seventh Day Baptist widow who had been attending services at his church. She spoke to him about his sermon the previous Sunday, during which he had said we must observe all of the Ten Commandments. She asked him why then he was breaking the fourth commandment. This led to a Bible study about the Sabbath. Elder Wheeler accepted the Sabbath, becoming the first Sabbathkeeping Adventist minister in North America. He shared the truth about the Sabbath with Free Will Baptist minister Thomas M. Preble, who then wrote and published an article entitled Tract, Showing That the Seventh Day Should Be Observed As the Sabbath. A copy of this article made it to Fairhaven, Massachusetts, to the home of an Advent believer named Joseph Bates.

Born in 1792, Joseph Bates, now a retired sea captain, was much older than most of the early Adventist pioneers. Prior to 1844 he had given away all of his fortune to help proclaim the soon return of Jesus. Upon reading Preble’s tract, Bates rode on horseback to Washington, New Hampshire, to meet with Frederick Wheeler. The two men studied the Sabbath doctrine throughout the night.

Convinced that Saturday is the Bible Sabbath, Bates returned home determined to share this truth with others. Upon reading the article on the sanctuary written by Crosier, and being convinced of its truthfulness, he traveled to upstate New York and shared the Sabbath truth with Edson, Crosier, and the others there. They all accepted it. Bates soon wrote his famous tract The Seventh Day Sabbath, a Perpetual Sign, which was read and studied by the newly married James and Ellen White. They too began to keep the Sabbath.

Some months later, on April 3, 1847, Ellen White was given a vision of the law of God in the heavenly sanctuary, with a halo of light around the fourth commandment. This brought a clearer understanding of the importance of the Sabbath doctrine, affirming the young Adventists in their biblical understandings.

The doctrine of the cleansing of the heavenly sanctuary had brought to view the ark of the covenant in the Most Holy Place. The light shining from that ark was opening to the view of these Advent believers the beautiful truth of the law of God and the seventh-day Sabbath.

### The Third Angel’s Message

The significance of the seventh-day Sabbath became more and more apparent as the early Adventists gained a deeper understanding of Bible prophecy. “Because the mark of the beast is placed on those who do not keep the commandments, the early Adventists began to see that the seal of God is for those who do keep them—who keep all of them, including the Sabbath. They discovered, in fact, that the seal of God is the Sabbath, properly observed through faith in Jesus. And this interpretation of theirs was confirmed through extensive Bible study and by one or more visions given to Ellen White” (C. M. Maxwell, Tell It to the World, pp. 92, 93).

As the pioneer Adventists discovered that the seal of God referred to the seventh-day Sabbath, they also came to realize that the mark of the beast was to be the counterfeit Sabbath of the Papacy—Sunday. These early Adventists now understood that God had revealed to them the light concerning the Sabbath and the mark of the beast so that they could proclaim a final message of warning and mercy. They were to give the third angel’s message of Revelation 14:9-12 to the whole world!

### Uniting on Bible Truth

During the years that followed the Great Disappointment, important meetings were held in which prominent Adventist believers met together to dedicate time to earnest prayer and Bible study. The increased doctrinal clarity they gained from these meetings, on subjects such as the sanctuary, the three angels’ messages, the Sabbath, the Spirit of prophecy, and the nonimmortality of the soul, helped to establish the biblical foundations of what would eventually become the Seventh-day Adventist Church. During this time God again used the gift of prophecy to help guide His people, giving Ellen White visions to affirm and bring clarity to the truths discovered by their study of Scripture.

The visions, however, were not a substitute for Bible study. Ellen White wrote of the experience: “Often we remained together until late at night, and sometimes through the entire night, praying for light and studying the Word. . . . When they came to the point in their study where they said, ‘We can do nothing more,’ the Spirit of the Lord would come upon me, I would be taken off in vision, and a clear explanation of the passages we had been studying would be given me, with instruction as to how we were to labor and teach effectively. Thus light was given that helped us to understand the scriptures in regard to Christ, His mission, and His priesthood. A line of truth extending from that time to the time when we shall enter the city of God, was made plain to me, and I gave to others the instruction that the Lord had given me.”

She went on to explain: “During this whole time I could not understand the reasoning of the brethren. My mind was locked, as it were, and I could not comprehend the meaning of the scriptures we were studying. . . . I was in this condition of mind until all the principal points of our faith were made clear to our minds, in harmony with the Word of God. The brethren knew that when not in vision, I could not understand these matters, and they accepted as light direct from heaven the revelations given” (Selected Messages, book 1, pp. 206, 207). God designed that the doctrinal pillars of our faith be rooted in the study of Scripture before He would affirm and further clarify them through visions given to Ellen White.

Since those early days of deep Bible study, various efforts have been made to alter the doctrinal foundation of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. Regarding such attempts, Ellen White cautions: “What influence is it that would lead men at this stage of our history to work in an underhand, powerful way to tear down the foundation of our faith—the foundation that was laid at the beginning of our work by prayerful study of the Word and by revelation? Upon this foundation we have been building for the past fifty years” (Selected Messages, book 1, p. 207).

### The Publishing Work

For the third angel’s message to be given with a “loud voice” to the entire world, a regular publication would be necessary. In November of 1848 God gave Ellen White a message for her husband. She told him, “You must begin to print a little paper and send it out to the people. Let it be small at first; but as the people read, they will send you means with which to print, and it will be a success from the first. From this small beginning it was shown to me to be like streams of light that went clear round the world” (Life Sketches of Ellen G. White, p. 125).

This was the beginning of what would become The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald (today the Adventist Review), the general paper of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. The publishing work began in Rochester, New York, where a dedicated group of young people in their 20s worked on the paper. Among them was Uriah Smith, who became the editor at the age of 23. Smith held this position with but few interruptions for 50 years. Also involved was J. N. Andrews, after whom Andrews University is named. A deep Bible student, Andrews was also a writer, a traveling preacher, and later our first official overseas missionary.

The Adventist Review was born out of deep love and commitment for the cause of God, which enabled the workers to endure personal sacrifice, financial struggles, long, tedious hours of work, and at times great discouragement. In spite of these difficult conditions, the small group of believers continued to publish the paper. This publication served as the primary means of educating and uniting the believers who would later form the membership of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.

### Formal Organization

In 1852 Joseph Bates traveled west in hopes of sharing the sanctuary message and Sabbath truth with others. God led him to Battle Creek, Michigan, where he inquired for “the most honest man in town.” Directed to the home of David Hewitt, he began to share the prophecies of Daniel and Revelation. Being the honest man that he was, David Hewitt embraced these Bible teachings and became the first Sabbathkeeping Adventist in Battle Creek.

A few years later the believers in Michigan invited James and Ellen White to move from Rochester to Battle Creek. In November of 1855 the Review and Herald Publishing Association, along with the hand press, was moved to a newly erected office building in Battle Creek. All of this was made possible by liberal donations from the Advent believers.

The need for organizational unity and division of responsibility became increasingly apparent as the number of Sabbathkeeping Adventists multiplied. In response to published invitations, representatives from five states met at Battle Creek, Michigan, to attend a “General Conference” from September 28 to October 1, 1860. Here James White urged the formation of an organization that could legally own the publishing house.

In order to hold property, the new organization was required to choose a name. Some were opposed to having a name, feeling that by doing so, Adventists would become “just another denomination.” Or even worse, some feared we would become part of “Babylon.” Eventually the delegates agreed that a name was necessary. David Hewitt suggested the name “Seventh-day Adventist,” and it was adopted. About this decision, Ellen White writes: “The name Seventh-day Adventist carries the true features of our faith in front, and will convict the inquiring mind” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 1, p. 224).

The following year, 1861, the Michigan Conference of Seventh-day Adventists was organized. In 1863 representatives of six conferences met and organized the General Conference, with 3,500 members. John Byington was asked to serve as the first president. The years that followed saw the establishment of Battle Creek College and the Battle Creek Sanitarium, the beginnings of our worldwide education and health work.

### Practical Application

When we trace the history of the Seventh-day Adventist Church, we can clearly see God’s hand guiding this young movement and placing it on a firm foundation of Scripture. The early Adventist pioneers were determined to obey the truth and share it with others. Their dedication should motivate us to the same level of commitment and sacrifice.

Remember: “We have nothing to fear for the future, except as we shall forget the way the Lord has led us, and His teaching in our past history” (Life Sketches of Ellen G. White, p. 196). Choose a book or video that will help you to continue learning about the history of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. As you see God’s hand in the past, you will be inspired to trust His leadership in the church and in your own life today. May we never forget!