---
title: Preaching Preparation and Presentation
---

The single most important topic of the campaign is “Righteousness by Faith.” If you and your membership do not understand and accept salvation in Christ, you have nothing to offer. There is no saving power in preaching the millennium, the state of the dead, etc., unless they are tied to the cross of Christ. The order of the sermons must lead the people to accept Christ as Saviour first. Then invite them to accept Him as Lord and step by step into what He asks. The evidence of their accepting Him as Lord is obedience out of love. When He is Lord, the Sabbath and other truths become clear. There is no argument, only loving obedience through His power. There is no power for behavioral change aside from this faith relationship with Jesus. Don’t call for a decision to keep the Sabbath until they have accepted Jesus as Savior and Lord.<sup>26</sup>

In preparing, decide on the whole comprehensive list of topics you plan to cover. Start praying and working on them early. Set a goal with dates as to when each sermon needs to be prepared in order to have them all ready before the meetings begin. Some may take longer to prepare than others.

It is not within the scope of this pamphlet to deal with sermon preparation itself. Often lay and ordained preachers utilize and adapt tested evangelistic sermons.

The sermons usually begin with a captivating story to capture the attention. This leads to the main theme, which is followed by three or four logically arranged main points that are presented with key texts. There is then a summary and always an appeal for decision.

One must be careful not to wander but to adhere to the theme and key points. Use brief illustrations that drive the point home and don’t use so many texts that it is confusing. Make it simple so that all can understand and yet be comprehensive and appealing.

Preach your sermon three times on the day you are going to preach. The first time go over your notes, reading them. The second time, ask yourself, what are the points and texts I want to emphasize? Highlight your main points with a highlighter. The third time, add the passion. Get excited! Raise your voice! Get people’s attention. Put your heart into what you are saying. Ask yourself, “How can I say this so people will know what is in my heart?” Practice looking away from your notes and into the eyes of the audience, making contact with the people. This is essential in your presentation.<sup>27</sup>

We will now move to making appeals.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>26</sup> ShareHim Team, The Harvest Is Ready: ShareHim Boot Camp Training Manual, (Charlotte, North Carolina, 2005), Session 15: “Righteousness by Faith,” pp. 1-4.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>27</sup> Ibid., Session 4: “How to Prepare for Preaching,” pp. 1-3.