---
title: Attention to Detail
date: 05/08/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> (Exo 38:21 NKJV) This is the inventory of the tabernacle, the tabernacle of the Testimony, which was counted according to the commandment of Moses, for the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, son of Aaron the priest.

### Observation

I find it interesting that Moses wrote in such detail the making of the furnishings of the sanctuary and of the vestments worm by the priests, and now he gives an exact account of all that was “spend” in the making of these. If Moses lived today, he would probably work for an accounting firm or for a large corporation as the Chief Financial Officer.

### Application

The faithfulness with which Moses gives account is a true lesson for all parents. Because children watch us so closely, we must be careful not to misuse anything, from work or at home or even the natural resources God provides us with. If you make copies at work, your children will grow believing that it is ok to do the same at school of at their job. If you don’t pay your taxes correctly, your children will be looking for ways to cheat the government, and others. If you take from your neighbor what is his, your children will also believe they can do the same with somebody else’s things. Our lesson of accountability will teach children about their own responsibility to be accountable.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, help us to always be faithful and true with whatever means you give us, with what others pay us or expect us to use on their behalf, and even with nature, that if or when we are called to render account, we may be found upright in everything, before you and others.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._