---
title: Sowing Bountifully
subtitle: Chapter 4
---

In explaining the parable of the sower (see Matthew 13:1-9; Mark 4:1-9; Luke 8:4-8), Jesus told us plainly that the seed represents “the word of God” (Luke 8:11). Perhaps nothing could better describe the mysterious power of God’s Word than the abundant life contained in a seed. It’s almost impossible not to wonder at the incredible miracle of a tiny seed’s becoming a flowering plant or a mighty tree.

> <callout></callout>
> There is supernatural power in the Word.

As with natural seed, the spiritual seed of God’s Word is a miracle waiting to happen. The Lord declares through Isaiah: “So shall My word be that goes forth from My mouth; it shall not return to Me void, but it shall accomplish what I please, and it shall prosper in the thing for which I sent it” (Isaiah 55:11). What an incredible promise! Just as we have confidence that a seed planted in proper soil will result in a fruitful plant, so we can have faith that when we share the Word of God, it will not return empty. There is supernatural power in the Word to convert souls to Christ and to cause them to grow spiritually (see 1 Peter 1:23; 2:2).

The apostle Paul declares: “He who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully” (2 Corinthians 9:6). We can have confidence that God’s Word will accomplish its purpose. It will awaken those living only for this world to a love for Christ and a deeper longing for eternal truth. “Sanctify them [set them apart] by Your truth. Your word is truth” (John 17:17). The more seeds of truth we plant, the greater will be the harvest of souls.

#### Every Member Is Needed

In light of this powerful formula, that the more we plant the more we reap, should we not plant the gospel seed wherever we go? God is calling on the members of His church to do just that. Regardless of age, background, talents, or gifts, every member of the church can spread the Word. This is exactly what we find the early believers doing in the book of Acts.

Just after the martyrdom of the deacon Stephen, “a great persecution arose against the church which was at Jerusalem; and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles” (Acts 8:1). While the apostles stayed in Jerusalem, the lay members of the church were scattered abroad. And what does the Bible tell us about these believers? “Those who were scattered went everywhere preaching the word” (verse 4). To “preach” doesn’t refer only to proclaiming God’s Word publicly, but includes sharing the “word of truth” (James 1:18) in personal settings as well. The witness of these laypeople was so powerful that a new church was established in Antioch as a result of their truth-sharing labors (see Acts 11:19-26).

The church has been commissioned to “preach the gospel to every creature” (Mark 16:15). As disciples of Christ, sharing the truth is an indispensable part of our calling as “fishers of men” (Mark 1:17). Consider the emphasis Ellen White places on the vital role of every member in sharing the truth of God’s Word with others:

“The dissemination of the truth of God is not confined to a few ordained ministers. _The truth is to be scattered_ by all who claim to be disciples of Christ” (_Christian Service_, p. 68; emphasis supplied).

“Satan is now seeking to hold God’s people in a state of inactivity, to keep them from acting their part in _spreading the truth_, that they may at last be weighed in the balance and found wanting” (ibid., p. 37; emphasis supplied).

“Unbelief, like the pall of death, is surrounding our churches, because they do not exercise the talents God has given them, by imparting the light to those who know not the precious truth. The Lord calls for the pardoned souls, those who rejoice in the light, to _make known the truth_ to others” (ibid.; emphasis supplied).

“Let ministers teach church members that in order to grow in spirituality, they must carry the burden that the Lord has laid upon them—the burden of _leading souls into the truth_” (ibid., p. 69; emphasis supplied).

The Lord has given every Christian the privilege and responsibility of scattering, spreading, imparting, and making known the truth to others. This “burden” should not be viewed in the sense of an unwanted or arbitrarily assigned chore. Rather, it reflects the natural love and concern for others that is felt by every person who has received the free gift of salvation. We cannot help feeling, even if only to a limited degree, the burden of Christ for those who do not yet know Him as their personal Savior. As Seventh-day Adventists we also carry a special burden for those who do not understand the everlasting gospel in the context of the three angels’ messages of Revelation 14. The good news of the gospel, the love of our Savior, and the powerful conviction of the Holy Spirit compel us to share our message with the world!

Consider the story of Debbie, a faithful Seventh-day Adventist. She loved God and felt a burden to share the message of salvation with others, but she was extremely timid and shy. As Debbie considered what she could do, she felt impressed to distribute tracts. With great trepidation she went from house to house for two blocks, leaving a gospel tract at every door. She then went home and prayed for the blessing of God to rest on every home she had visited. She claimed the promise in Isaiah 55:11 that God’s Word would not return empty but would accomplish His purpose.

A woman in one of the houses read the tract left by Debbie. The Lord spoke to her heart. The more she read, the more the Holy Spirit impressed her with the truth. She had to get more literature, but where? She looked on the back of the tract and found a church address. Soon this woman was attending Sabbath School and church. She came for several months until a visiting minister made an appeal one day at the end of his sermon. The woman sprung from her seat and came forward to commit her life to Jesus. Imagine the joy that filled Debbie’s heart that day! Even if you are as fearful as Debbie, God can use _you_ to spread the Word. (Story adapted from Home Missionary Department, General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, _Lift Him Up_, p. 39.)

#### Beside All Waters

The prophet Isaiah emphasizes the importance of a wide distribution of the gospel seed: “Blessed are you who sow beside all waters” (Isaiah 32:20). When doing this, we should utilize multiple methods in order to meet the needs of various circumstances. In the remaining chapters of this book, we will explore the following ways to sow the gospel seed:

- Conversations, testimonies, and invitations
- Literature distribution
- Media sharing
- House-to-house visitation

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
The above topics relate to planting seeds of truth by introducing people to spiritual things. For training on how to give ongoing Bible studies or to conduct evangelistic meetings, see the resources dedicated to the cultivate and harvest phases of the GROW model at www.grow.adventist.org.

When it comes to planting the seed of God’s Word, different methods are needed to reach different people. While we sometimes dismiss a method because it influences a smaller number of people, we should remember that those same individuals may be difficult to reach in any other way. Therefore we should not limit ourselves to only one or two methods of spreading the truth. To employ a fishing analogy, we should “cast the net” in as many ways as possible.

#### Spiritual Interests

Growing churches have a specific trait that sets them apart from stagnant or declining churches. They spend a significant amount of time, energy, and resources searching for people who are open to or interested in eternal things. In evangelistic terms we refer to these individuals as “interests” or “spiritual interests.” All around us there are people with a hunger and thirst for something more than this world has to offer. Mission-driven churches never stop looking for these individuals. Take a moment to consider the following questions:

`Do you seek out spiritual interests?`

`Do you pray for spiritual interests?`

`Do you put forth efforts to lead spiritual interests into the truth?`

`Does your church create and oversee plans to find, pray for, and develop spiritual interests?`

Healthy, growing churches have an interest coordinator that oversees an active interest list. They regularly search for new interests and make plans to generate new ones. Then they pray, plan, and work for these interests to nurture and guide them into the truth and to eventually integrate them into the life and mission of the church.

So how do we find spiritual interests? The best way to identify those who are open to the truth is to plant spiritual seeds! When we spread invitations to Bible-based studies and events, for instance, we find those we may not have otherwise known to be interested. Similarly, when we share a testimony, an inspiring piece of literature, or a powerful sermon video, it can help us to identify people who are open to truth. In essence, the more seeds we plant, the more spiritually interested people we will find, and the more disciples we will be able to make!

><callout></callout>
> The more seeds we plant, the more spiritually interested people we will find.

Through acts of providence and the influence of His Spirit, God is generating a spiritual interest in many people in our communities: “All over the world men and women are looking wistfully to heaven. . . . Many are on the verge of the kingdom, waiting only to be gathered in” (_The Acts of the Apostles_, p. 109). The only way to identify and gather into the body of Christ those who are open to salvation is to keep planting seeds of spiritual truth—through conversations, invitations, literature, and media.

#### Morning and Evening

We should ask God each day to use us as His witnesses. This we can do by praying for doors of opportunity to be opened to plant spiritual seeds: “Continue earnestly in prayer . . . that God would open to us a door for the word” (Colossians 4:2, 3). If clear opportunities don’t present themselves, we may have to take the first steps in building relationships and creating witnessing opportunities. Remember, we’re called to mingle with people, seek the lost, and fish for souls.

The Bible tells us that “he who observes the wind will not sow, and he who regards the clouds will not reap” (Ecclesiastes 11:4). If we put off sharing spiritual truth until what we perceive to be the perfect time or conditions, we may never do it. The passage goes on to say, “In the morning sow your seed, and in the evening do not withhold your hand; for you do not know which will prosper, either this or that, or whether both alike will be good” (verses 5, 6). We can’t know the perfect time to offer a Bible study, or to open a spiritual conversation, or to share a tract. Therefore the Bible urges us to sow seed “in the morning” and “in the evening.” Perhaps both will prosper!

Successful soul winners don’t sow sporadically, but continually: “Those who sow in tears shall reap in joy. He who _continually_ goes forth weeping, bearing seed for sowing, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him” (Psalm 126:5, 6). Many people who seem to be open to Bible truth never fully accept it. The key to significant growth, then, is to be continually planting seeds and thus finding more spiritual interests. When this is done, there will always be a harvest of “sheaves” giving us reason to rejoice. Growing churches reap bountiful harvests because they sow bountiful seeds of truth!