---
title: Shaping Character
subtitle: Week 2
---

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

Would you prefer your child to have:

+ A good character or a good career?
+ A good reputation or a kind heart?
+ A desire to serve others or become a genius?

Is shaping character in our children really one of the most important tasks we can do in life? Why or why not?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

**Read the story of Daniel** and his friends in Daniel 1:8-20.

+ What do you notice about Daniel’s character as he’s described here?
+ How might you build character such as this in your little one? What might you need to “purpose in your heart” to give, or withhold, in the process?
+ What’s the real purpose of cultivating a good character in your baby?

Ellen White writes a lot about character development. Read the following quotes and share your thoughts on each main message. How challenging is it to follow through with this advice?

> ^[Most precious.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) “A good character is more precious than worldly possessions, and the work of forming it is the noblest in which men can engage” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 165).

> ^[It takes effort.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) “Character does not come by chance … It is the repetition of the act that causes it to become a habit, and molds the character either for good or for evil. Right characters can be formed only by persevering, untiring effort, by improving every entrusted talent and capability to the glory of God” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 164).

> ^[Build on God.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) “To a great extent everyone is the architect of his own character. Every day the structure more nearly approaches completion. The Word of God warns us to take heed how we build, to see that our building is founded upon the Eternal Rock” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 164).

> “In our character building we must build on Christ. He is the sure foundation—a foundation which can never be moved” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 166).

> ^[Most important.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) “The character building of your children is of more importance than the cultivation of your farms, more essential than the building of houses to live in, or of prosecuting any manner of business or trade” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 169).

> ^[God will help.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) “When parents shall manifest such an interest for their children as God would have them, He will hear their prayers and work with their efforts; but God does not propose to do the work which He has left for parents to do” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 172).

> ^[Not indulgence or an iron rod.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) “Children are often indulged from their babyhood, and wrong habits become fixed … But while many err upon the side of indulgence, others go to the opposite extreme and rule their children with a rod of iron. Neither of these follow out the Bible directions, but both are doing a fearful work” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 175).

> ^[Be consistent.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}) “Parents frequently pet and indulge their young children because it appears easier to manage them in that way … Yet this course is cowardly” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 178).

+ How can you be balanced in your parenting approach?
+ There are clear, wise, strong words here. An indulged teenager is not a pleasant person. Who can you lean on for support to be consistent with your little one?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-04-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
In pairs, pray for wisdom, determination, and a sense of calm as you train\
and humble the self-centered natures of your children. God’s Spirit\
wants to abide with your child, so pray that their little hearts will\
be open to Him.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

During the next three weeks, read Child Guidance, chapters 31-35. Reflect and pray for wisdom to shape your baby’s character into something beautiful that God can use for His glory.