---
title: Safety and Security
subtitle: Week 9
---

The Bible tells us that true love casts out all fear. It’s an incredible promise to think of relationships that are truly secure. Because all human love is imperfect, the only way we can create a loving, fear-free environment for our babies is to drink deeply from God’s perfect love.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ What are some things you’ve noticed that seem to frighten your baby? Are there certain sounds, objects, people, activities, or situations that make her afraid? What is his favorite way of being soothed?
+ Can you recall a time God soothed you in a moment of fear or anxiety? How did He give you a sense of security when you needed it most?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

As parents, sometimes we can feel embarrassed by our baby’s behavior in public. Sometimes we are tempted to base our self-worth on what other people think of our parenting abilities. Read 1 John 4:18.

+ How can a secure relationship with God flow into your parenting?

Read the following verses about how we can find security in God. Discuss how these promises can find expression in the way we treat our babies.

+ Romans 8:38, 39
+ Psalm 91:1-7
+ Psalm 34:4-6
+ Philippians 4:6
+ Isaiah 41:13

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

Read the following quote and discuss:

> “An eminent divine was once asked how old a child must be before there was reasonable hope of his being a Christian. ‘Age has nothing to do with it,’ was the answer. ‘Love to Jesus, trust, repose, confidence, are all qualities that agree with the child’s nature. As soon as a child can love and trust his mother, then can he love and trust Jesus as the friend of his mother. Jesus will be his friend, loved and honored’ ” (Ellen G. White, Good Health, January 1, 1880).

+ What might your little one’s trust in you look like this week? What gives you encouragement as you seek to be a trustworthy source of security for your child?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

Think of ways you can help your baby feel secure in your love this week. Discuss your ideas with the group. Below is an example.

+ Discover what soothes your baby. This may be different from one child to the next. As you soothe her fears, you are helping her learn the skill of self-soothing.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Praise God for the times He has soothed your fears.\
Ask Him to make you a safe place for your child to find security and rest.
\
“Fear not, for I am with you; be not dismayed, for I am your God.\
I will strengthen you, yes, I will help you, I will uphold you\
with My righteous right hand”\
(Isaiah 41:10).