---
title: The Best Medicine
date: 29/08/2025
---

_John H. Ryan_

> <p></p>
> Woe to you, O land whose king was a servant and whose princes feast in the morning. Blessed are you, O land . . . whose princes eat at a proper time—for strength and not for drunkenness. Eccl. 10:16, 17, NIV.

Early one morning I received an urgent telephone call from my physician telling me to report as quickly as possible to a designated hospital. An electrocardiogram taken a week earlier had shown some form of heart irregularity.

Lying in anxiety in the cardiac-care unit, I observed on the monitor the effect that my slightest body motion had on my pulse rate and blood pressure. The psalmist's declaration that we are fearfully and wonderfully made came instantly to mind.

After two weeks with no clearly defined diagnosis the hospital discharged me. Six months later my doctor advised me that esophagitis, a common condition related to my hiatal hernia, was my problem. Hiatal hernias are known to produce symptoms that mimic certain heart ailments, but are not life-threatening. Undoubtedly my stressful managerial position had exacerbated the hernia, causing an acute reaction.

Thankful for the alert, I resolved to become more actively involved in my personal health. A sedentary lifestyle had increased my weight to 200 pounds. It was time to make some changes.

For me the advice of the wise teacher and king of Israel in Ecclesiastes 10:16, 17 was the best remedy. "Eat at a proper time—for strength." I wondered how many times had I eaten a meal even when I wasn't hungry because food was there? How many times had I, although full, gone back for another helping?

I stopped eating a big breakfast before I was hungry, allowing my body ample time to use up stored calories from the day before. Instead I began spending time working in my vegetable garden during the early-morning hours. Only after engaging in such strenuous activity did I have a desire for food. Then I would break my "fast" and eat a healthy meal.

Within months I lost 20 pounds and stabilized at a normal weight. My hernia became manageable and controllable, with none of the side effects I'd experienced earlier.

For more than 10 years now I've followed this healthy regimen of eating for strength, and I have no need for the stomach remedies my doctor prescribed. I thank God that His remedies provide the best medicine.

> <callout></callout>
> Take the 10-day challenge: eat for strength and not for appetite, and see if it doesn't make a difference in how you feel.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._