---
title: The Church In The Home
---

> <p></p>
> “Greet also the church that meets at their house” (Rom. 16:5).

The Apostles’ words, “the church that meets at their house”, have a new and dynamic meaning when we remember that every house hold should be a church.

In an oriental country, a young Japanese woman was invited to spend the holidays in a Christian lady’s home. At the end of the vacation the lady asked her guest if she had enjoyed the way people live in the western world. “O, I loved it! Your house is very beautiful! But,” she said with a faraway look in her eyes, “there is something I missed that made your home seem strange. I attended your church and watched you worship your God there; but, I missed seeing your God at your house. In my country we have a place for our gods in every house. Our gods are always with us. Do you worship your God in your home?”

Today many Christian homes are more secular and without God. People are caught up in trying to survive. Stress works in many homes to keep people from their devotional habits. Television programs and soap operas are watched with excitement. Entertainment competes with spending time with God. The household is no longer a church for the family. “I missed God at your house.” The words of the Japanese woman showed that she did not feel God’s presence in that Christian home.

As parents, it is our duty and privilege is to teach our children the way of life in Jesus. “They are to be carefully, wisely, tenderly guided into paths of Christlike ministry. We are under sacred covenant with God to rear our children for His service. To surround them with such influences as shall lead them to choose a life of service, and to give them the training needed, is our first duty” (The Adventist Home, p. 484).

Paul found one of his best co-workers in Timothy, who was from a home where God was honored. And he wrote: “I am reminded of your sincere faith, which first lived in your grandmother Lois and in your mother Eunice and, I am persuaded, now lives in you also” (2 Tim. 1:5).

There are homes that create delinquents, criminals and useless people. There are others that make men and women who are of value to society. They are giants in faith like Timothy. Fathers and mothers are agents used by God to help grow their children’s character. Is God in your home?

_—Enoch de Oliveira, Bom Dia Senhor, p. 171_