---
title: He Wants to Rescue, Heal, and Save
date: 06/05/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> For "whoever calls on the name of the LORD shall be saved." Romans 10:13

### Observation

There are several important aspects in this text:

1.The expression is emphatic, “Everyone whosoever.” It is not “some,” “most,” but “everyone,” nor is it “might,” or “could,” but “shall.”

2. This is the third time these words appear in the Scriptures - “shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved” (Joe 2:32), and also quoted by Peter, in his great Pentecostal sermon (Ac 2:21), where he made it an evident application to Jesus Christ. This “calling upon the name of the Lord is defined in Romans 10:9-10: “That if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised Him from the dead, you will be saved. 10 For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Romans 10:9-10 (NKJV)

3. The word “saved” in the NT Greek may be translated as “saved,” “rescued” or “healed.” All three words have important implications to our salvation from sin because the sacrifice of Jesus on the cross not only saves us from the penalty of sin (death), but also rescues us from its power, and heals us from its effects.

### Application

There are so many circumstances in family life and in the life of a couple where this verse offers us help. For instance, we are often asked if a marriage can be saved after infidelity has taken place. This verse promises that God can bring healing to our relationship even when trust has been broken.

Others ask if there’s hope for their broken relationship, and we point out that the text promises that God can save our marriage, even if it feels to us like we have nothing in common and divorce is the only solution and outcome.

What if our son or daughter is in the midst of an abusive relationship or shackled by an addiction? This promise is also for us as their parents as we pray for our children or as they claim the promise for themselves.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, we ask in the name of Jesus that you save, rescue, and heal us – individually, our marriages, our families, and our children – from whatever is keeping us away from You or from enjoying the life You planned and desire for us, life abundant.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._