---
title: Christians in a Violent Society
date: 14/06/2025
---

_Walter Thompson_

> <p></p>
> Noah was a righteous man, blameless among the people of his time, and he walked with God. . . . Now the earth was corrupt in God's sight and was full of violence. Gen. 6:9-11, NIV. As it was in the days of Noah, so it will be at the coming of the Son of Man. Matt. 24:37, NIV.

I was called to the emergency department to see a little girl who needed my services. About 5 years old, she was unconscious, bruised, and bleeding from every orifice, a victim of rape and beating.

Nor is this example unique. Every day around our world thousands of innocent victims suffer at the hands of a violent society. It has become our way of life. As I write, the cover story of USA Today tells of violence in the workplace. It is everywhere! As a disease, violence has grown to become the number one killer of youth and young adults, accounting for more lost days of productive life than any other malady, including heart attacks and cancer.

Neither are Christians exempt from the effects of the epidemic. Our spouses, our children and parents, our families and friends often fall victim to the plague. Like Abraham's nephew, Lot, living in ancient Sodom (2 Peter 2:7, 8), our hearts often ache from the pain and frustration of our own dysfunctional families and broken homes and the violence that accompanies them.

How are we to live in such a world?

We may run and hide or become so involved in activities that we don't have time to think of our pain and problems. Perhaps we may make-believe that nothing is wrong. Some of us may let alcohol or drugs, sex or sports, computer games or videos, or even our work or religion divert our attentions and fill our time.

Or we, like David of old, may find our peace and comfort in the sanctuary. Ours is the privilege of resting our case with Jesus and trusting Him to carry us through this time of judgment, when everything around us is in frustration, confusion, and turmoil. We can rest in the assurance that He will take care of His own, and one day soon we will celebrate the end of violence and sin.

> <callout></callout>
> Lord, give me the spirit of love and not fear as I live in this end-time violent society.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._