---
title: About the Author
---

Pastor Mundia Liywalii hails from the beautiful country of Zambia, fondly called by its citizens as the “real Africa.” He has a BA in Theology from Solusi University, a Master of Pastoral Theology, and a Doctor of Ministry–Mission Emphasis from the Adventist University of Africa. The thesis for his MA was “A Theological Strategy to Increase Tithing in Northmead Church.” His connection with the stewardship department began in 1989 when he served as a local church stewardship secretary while pursuing a diploma at a local ministerial school. Upon completing his studies there, he served as a pastor of a multi-church district for four years before accepting a call to head the Stewardship Department in West Zambia. After serving in this capacity for four years, he left for his undergraduate studies. Barely six months after graduation, he was elected Stewardship Director of the same field, and he held that position for another three years. He became the Zambia’s Union Mission first Stewardship Director when it was organized into a union conference in 2004. He continued in that position from 2004 to 2014, when he received a call to be the President of the Central Zambia Conference. During his term as Stewardship Director of the union, the church experienced significant growth in tithe and offering income. Until he was elected Southern Africa Indian- Ocean Division Stewardship Director, he served as Executive Secretary of the Northern Zambia Union Conference.