---
title: The Revelation of Jesus Christ
---

What are the three angels’ messages? They read as follows:

“Then I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth—to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people—saying with a loud voice, ‘Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come; and worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water.’ And another angel followed, saying, ‘Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she has made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.’ Then a third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, ‘If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives his mark on his forehead or on his hand, he himself shall also drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out full strength into the cup of His indignation. He shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever; and they have no rest day or night, who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name.’ Here is the patience of the saints; here are those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus” (Revelation 14:6-12).

That’s it. About 220 words in the New King James Version. And yet in these nouns and verbs and prepositions are “mysteries” (1 Corinthians 4:1), deep things that “angels desire to look into” (1 Peter 1:12) but have now been revealed to us. The three angels’ messages are expressions of truths that God had established, not just “before the foundation of the world” (Ephesians 1:4), but “before time began” (2 Timothy 1:9)—a long time ago! Embedded in these texts about specific, earthly things—i.e., nations, people, springs of water, and the beast—are eternal truths that existed before even time did and will remain throughout eternity.

The messages appear in the book of Revelation, the last book in the Christian Bible, which makes sense because the book is about last-day events. The fancy theological word is “eschatology,” the study of final events. Just as the book of Genesis, the first book of the Bible, dealt with the creation of the world and the first events in it, Revelation, the last book of the Bible, deals with last events in it, leading up to the end of this world and the creation of a new one, “a new heaven and a new earth” (Revelation 21:1).

The word “Revelation” appears in the first line of the book: “The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave Him to show His servants—things which must shortly take place” (Revelation 1:1). The word for “revelation” in Greek, apokalypsis, means an “uncovering” or a “revealing,” from which we get the word “revelation.”

And it is a revelation of what? The “revelation of Jesus Christ.” That is, the book teaches us about Jesus, about who He is: “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End” (Revelation 1:8), the eternal God; and yet it also depicts Him as “the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world” (Revelation 13:8), the crucified Savior, the one who died on the cross, slain for the sins of the world.

Though Revelation is a New Testament book, just like the rest of the New Testament it relies heavily on the Old. Scholar Ranko Stefanovic argues of the 404 verses in Revelation, 278 refer or allude to the Old Testament, including such key events as the Creation, the Flood, and the Exodus. No other New Testament book relies so heavily on the Old.

This point becomes very important in seeking to understand the meaning of Revelation, including the three angels’ messages. Many of its words and phrases—i.e., “Babylon,” “the beast,” “the commandments of God,” “the wine of wrath,” “forever and ever”—cannot be properly understood apart from how they are used in the Old Testament. In fact, the Old Testament is the key to unlocking the important truths given in this, the final book of the Bible, with its message for those living in these hard days of earth’s tragic history.