---
title: Love Does Not Take Into Account A Wrong Suffered
---

> <p></p>
> “Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud” (1 Cor. 13:4).

Today we will talk about jealousy. What is jealousy? It is a painful feeling that hurts the heart of those who feel it, taking them beyond their emotions’ control. In general, jealousy is expressed through a desire to possess another person whom they think they love. It is followed by the fear of losing this person. Even though, at first glance, jealousy might seem like a beautiful and romantic feeling, it is actually a sick way of thinking. It is highly destructive and prevents the growth of true love and peace.

C. Diane once said: “Jealousy is the worm of hatred in love; sometimes it kills, but always it hurts.” This is a good definition. Jealousy lives in a house germinated by hate. The distance separating jealousy and hate is invisible. In general, those who allow jealousy to dominate their lives lose the control of their emotions. They are easily led to extreme be haviors. When they realize what they have done, it could be too late.

With very appropriate words, the Apostle Paul wrote that true love “does not act unbecomingly; it does not seek its own, is not provoked, does not take into account a wrong suffered” (1 Cor. 13:5, NASB).

What a deep difference between true love and the kind of love revealed by one who is surrounded by the sharp claws of jealousy. Jealousy is selfish and possessive. True love is unselfish. So, the jealous only seek their own interests. The one who truly loves looks for the sake of others and, in a very special way, for the interests of their beloved. True love is not provoked by anything and does not take into account a wrong suffered.

We could avoid many evils by not allowing the sparks of jealousy to enter our hearts. For even the smallest spark could ignite great fires. Better to be safe than sorry. We need a lot of divine help so that true love might be crowned within the heart.

_—Daily Meditations, p. 23_