---
title: Every Member a Literature Evangelist
subtitle: Chapter 8
---

Not long after the Seventh-day Adventist Church was officially organized in 1863, literature distribution began to grow as a key means of accomplishing its mission. While tracts and books were already being circulated by Adventist believers, a more organized effort would soon be formed. In 1868 four women from South Lancaster, Massachusetts, came together to pray for their children regularly. As the women prayed for their loved ones, a desire grew within their hearts to do something more. They soon began to lend books, papers, and tracts to neighbors. Then they expanded the ministry further and started to mail tracts and papers overseas. Some of the women began to study German and French so they could better minister to the recipients of the literature. In June 1869 they organized themselves into the Vigilant Missionary Society.

Stephen Haskell was one of the brightest and most mission-minded pioneers of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. In November 1870, having witnessed the fruit of the Vigilant Missionary Society, Haskell established the New England Tract and Missionary Society. Meanwhile, over in Battle Creek, Michigan, James and Ellen White were considering even greater possibilities. “A vision of a denomination-wide enterprise, built on the same plan as the New England Tract and Missionary Society, loomed large in the mind of James White” (Ella M. Robinson, _S. N. Haskell—Man of Action_, p. 32). With the General Conference’s blessing, Haskell was soon traveling from conference to conference organizing tract and missionary societies.

On January 1, 1874, a new monthly journal called The True Missionary was inaugurated to promote interest in these tract societies. It included reports and training in effective methods of personal evangelism through literature. In the book _S. N. Haskell—Man of Action_ Ella Robinson notes: “Societies began to spring up here and there; and wherever there was a lively Tract and Missionary Society there was sure to be a growing, thriving church” (p. 32). The combination of truth-filled literature and caring church members was established as a winning formula!

> <callout></callout>
> Every member can share truth-filled literature.

Haskell urged everyone to get involved, and even young children were making sacrifices to invest their pennies in this missionary cause. In 1874 the General Conference organized the General Tract and Missionary Society, which was designed to unify the state societies. In 1876 it was renamed the International Tract and Missionary Society, to underscore its new global reach. This marked the beginning of the worldwide systematic distribution of literature in the daily life of dedicated church members.

#### The Leaves of Autumn

It’s easy to see how publications can impact the thinking and beliefs of people, but before they can have an influence they must be shared. Ellen White points out, “Publications must be multiplied, and scattered like the leaves of autumn. These silent messengers are enlightening and molding the minds of thousands in every country and in every clime” (_Colporteur Ministry_, p. 5). This imagery paints a vivid picture. Ellen White had spent many years in the northeast regions of the United States, where the autumn season is marked by a seemingly countless number of leaves falling from the stately trees. Red, brown, yellow, and orange leaves in many places form a blanket several inches deep after falling to the ground. This picture is the true destiny of literature distribution. Not a few members leaving a sprinkling of books or tracts every once in a great while, but many leaving a rich blanket of literature that should be spread so abundantly that everyone in our communities is given opportunity to discover the truth.

In order for this to become a reality, every member is needed: “Let every believer scatter broadcast tracts and leaflets and books containing the message for this time” (_Christian Service_, p. 145). “Long has God waited for the spirit of service to take possession of the whole church so that everyone shall be working for Him according to his ability” (_The Acts of the Apostles_, p. 111). This is the beauty of literature distribution. It’s within the “ability” of everyone. Every member can share truth-filled literature.

#### The Literature Lifestyle

The fact that you’re reading this book means you probably want to be a witness for Jesus. You resonate with the power of literature and the need for its distribution as described in the previous chapter. This is an important first step, but if you stop here you will be like multitudes of others who never put their convictions into action. Literature distribution is a good intention far more than a way of life for most Adventists. The key is to turn the sharing of books and tracts into a habit. With this goal in view, consider the following ideas for developing a literature “lifestyle”:

**Read Sharing Literature**—Get acquainted with the church’s sharing literature and experience the transforming power of its message before you pass it on to others. This not only motivates you to share, but gives you credibility and influence when you can speak with conviction about the literature you are sharing.

**Pray for Divine Appointments**—Pray that God will give you a burden for souls. Then ask Him every day to lead you to people who would be open to receiving a piece of literature. Ask for discernment to know what to share with others and the courage to share it.

**Carry Literature With You**—Be prepared to share literature every day. Choose a pocket on your person or in your purse for holding literature when you’re out and about. If it’s not with you, you’ll never share it. “Carry with you, wherever you go, a package of select tracts, which you can hand out as you have opportunity” (_Christian Service_, p. 151). Maintain a small inventory of literature in your vehicle and in your home. Be sure there is a label, card, or tract offering Bible studies with every piece of literature you plan to share. If your church provides free literature for distribution, plan to stock up as needed when you go to church each Sabbath.

**Share Literature**—The only way to develop a habit of sharing literature is to start sharing it! Give out books and tracts or leave them somewhere where they will be noticed and picked up. God will bless abundantly every piece of literature shared by church members: “The same ministry of angels attends the books that contain the truth as attends the work of the minister” (_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 6, p. 316).

**Tell Others**—After sharing literature and seeing how God has blessed your efforts, tell others about your experience. The psalmist declared: “O God, You have taught me from my youth; and to this day I declare Your wondrous works” (Psalm 71:17). As you describe your experience to others, it will inspire and motivate them to share literature with others also.

#### Ways to Share

There are numerous ways to plant seeds of truth using literature. All it takes is intentionality and a little creativity. Think about the various places you go and the wide variety of people you interact with every day. Everywhere and everyone is a candidate to receive literature.

When it comes to sharing books and tracts, there are two fundamental ways to share. You can hand someone a piece of literature in person, or you can leave it behind for someone to find. Consider the following ideas for each of these methods:

**Share a Book or Tract in Person**—As you interact with people on a day-by-day basis, look for opportunities to hand them literature. You might say:

> “It was great to meet you today. Here is something I think you would really enjoy reading. It gives some excellent information on the topic we were talking about. I would love to connect with you again and visit some more.”

Or, here’s a script for when you give literature to thank drivers, hairdressers, cleaning personnel, store clerks, or others who provide you with gifts or services:

> “Thank you so much for _____. I’d like to give you this little gift to say thank you. It’s really short and easy to read, but it shares some powerful things that have really impacted my life. I hope we can connect again soon.”

Exchange contact information so that you can stay in touch by text or email. Depending on the relationship that has been built and the level of interest, you might also extend an invitation to a future lunch or other social setting. Remember that it isn’t the literature alone that makes an impact, but the impression made by the spirit and character of the one who shares it.

- **Shopping Malls or Stores**—Give to cashiers or other employees at supermarkets, malls, or markets.
- **Home or Neighborhood**—Give to home maintenance or repair professionals, delivery personnel, or neighbors, or simply distribute door to door in the neighborhood.
- **Restaurants**—Give to servers at sit-down restaurants or cashiers at fast-food windows.
- **Beauty Parlors**—Give to barbers or hairdressers.
- **Gas Stations**—Give to attendants or customers.
- **Rental Cars**—Give to agents at the counter.
- **Office Visits**—Give to receptionists, doctors, dentists, nurses, or other customers.
- **Drivers**—Give to bus, shuttle, taxi, or Uber drivers.
- **Work**—Give to coworkers.
- **Travel**—Give to fellow air, bus, or train travelers.
- **Outings**—Give to fellow hikers or attendees at zoos, parks, and beaches.
- **Inner City**—Prepare a bag of food for homeless individuals and put a piece of literature inside or distribute on busy street corners.
- **Hotels**—Give to front desk workers and cleaning personnel.
- **Parking Lots or Garages**—Give to attendants.
- **Banks**—Give to tellers.
- **Civic Leaders**—Give to mayors, police and fire chiefs, and other civic leaders after asking how you can help meet the needs of the community.
- **Special Occasions**—Give for birthdays or holidays.
- **Send to People by Mail**—Send to someone special, with your bills, with a greeting card, to relatives of the deceased in obituaries, or to any others to whom you send mail. You might also send a letter with a book or tract to the names and addresses found in a community phone book or directory. Consider mailing a fixed number, such as 100 per month, until you have mailed to everyone in your territory.

**Leave a Tract or Book Behind**—Leave literature behind in public places where people can find it. Pray and ask God to help those who most need the truth to discover your literature. Be careful to follow any local laws and to be discreet about the location and quantity of the literature left behind. As a general rule, it is best to leave no more than a few tracts and to avoid leaving them in the same place repeatedly. You don’t want a lack of moderation to cause anyone to begin viewing your tracts as a nuisance.

- **Stores**—Leave in shopping carts.
- **Community Bulletin Boards**—Pin to bulletin boards.
- **Gas Stations**—Leave at the gas pump.
- **Rental Cars**—Leave in the glove compartment.
- **Waiting Rooms**—Leave inside magazines or on tables.
- **Rides**—Leave on the seat before leaving.
- **Libraries**—Leave in returned books or on tables.
- **Work**—Leave in break rooms.
- **Schools**—Leave in lunchrooms.
- **Gyms**—Leave in lockers.
- **Restaurants**—Leave on the table with a tip.
- **Flea Markets or Bazaars**—Leave on tables.
- **Vending Machines**—Leave in vending area so it is picked up with the next item.
- **Rest Stops**—Leave in restrooms or on bulletin boards.
- **Travel**—Leave in airport lounges, in train or bus terminals, or on plane, train, bus, or metro seats.
- **Parks**—Leave on benches.
- **Shopping Malls**—Leave in sitting areas or dressing rooms.
- **Used Items**—Put in pockets of used clothing or inside furniture being sold or given away.
- **Restrooms**—Leave in a dry, convenient place.
- **Funeral Homes**—Leave on a display table.
- **Hotels**—Leave in Gideon Bibles, in a telephone book, or with a tip and thank-you note for the cleaning personnel.
- **Parking Lots or Garages**—Leave on car door handles on the driver’s side.
- **ATM Machines**—Leave on top.
- **Laundromats**—Leave on tables or counters.
- **Mailboxes or Porches**—Leave in mailboxes if legal (this practice is illegal in the United States) or on front steps or porches.
- **Display Racks**—Set up small literature display racks wherever you can gain permission.

One day a Muslim woman received a missionary book about the Sabbath. Intrigued by the topic, she finished reading the book in just three days. She loved it! In that simple book she learned about her Creator and the true Sabbath rest. She then went to her workplace and requested Saturdays off. The employer declined to grant her request, reminding her of the country’s high unemployment rate. She would have to choose between her job or keeping the Sabbath. Wisely and courageously she chose God’s holy day.

Soon her Muslim husband noticed that she was not going to work anymore. As he looked into the situation, he discovered that she had lost her job because of reading a certain book. He decided to read the same book to convince his wife that she had gotten it all wrong. She should disregard the Sabbath and go back to work. However, reading the book didn’t turn out as he had thought. Now he was convicted of the Sabbath, which resulted in his losing his job also. Eventually they both joined God’s family through baptism.

But the story isn’t over yet. That one book began to circulate among other family members and resulted in nine additional baptisms! As for the couple that lost their jobs, they are both now serving as full-time literature evangelists. The book? It’s still being passed around among their relatives. Only in heaven will we learn the full impact of that one sharing book.

God is ready to use flyers, tracts, pamphlets, books, newspapers, and magazines to impress people all over the world with the truth. These silent messengers need only to find their way into people’s hands. This is why everyone is needed—children, youth, adults, and seniors—in the great work of planting seeds of truth through literature: “Think of how great a work can be done if a large number of believers will unite in an effort to place before the people, by the circulation of these books, the light that the Lord has said should be given them. Under divine guidance, go forward in the work, and look to the Lord for aid. The Holy Spirit will attend you. Angels of heaven will accompany you, preparing the way” (Review and Herald, January 27, 1903).