---
title: Created to do Good
date: 08/08/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. (Ephesians 2:10, NKJV)

God planned for us to do good things and to live as he has always wanted us to live. That's why he sent Christ to make us what we are. Ephesians 2:10 (CEV)

### Observation

_**unto good works**_—“for good works.” “Good works” cannot be performed until we are new “created unto” them. Paul never calls the works of the law “good works.” We are not saved by, but created unto, good works.

_**before ordained**_—Greek, “before made ready” (compare Jn 5:36). God marks out for each in His purposes beforehand, the particular good works, and the time and way which tie sees best. God both makes ready by His providence the opportunities for the works, and makes us ready for their performance (Jn 15:16; 2Ti 2:21). [Jamieson, R., Fausset, A. R., & Brown, D. (1997). Commentary Critical and Explanatory on the Whole Bible. Oak Harbor, WA: Logos Research Systems, Inc.]

### Application

God’s plan when He created us was not for us to simply live for ourselves but rather that we would give to others of all the abundance that we have received from Him. The standard for living God has given to us is Jesus Christ, but we all know none of us has come close to His example.

One of the areas where we need to do better, particularly as husbands, is in our treatment of our wives. Paul writes in Ephesians 5:25, “Husbands, love your wives JUST AS Christ loved the church and gave Himself for her to sanctify her.” We need to stop to think about how Jesus has treated His bride. He lived for her and even died for her. We could also look at His relationship with the church from a different angle, that is, what Jesus has never done to His bride – He’s never hurt, abused, neglected, or abandoned His bride.

Our effort, as husbands, should be in imitating Jesus, but treating our wives sacrificially, not selfishly. Every action and every word should be aimed at blessing and helping them. Now, I am the first one to confess that I have fallen far short of that goal, which is the reason I must continue to draw close to Christ that I may imitate Him and be changed more into His image so that my words and actions will not just be mine but His through me.

The same is true in our relationship to our children. Jesus loved children and made them feel loved and acceptable through His words and actions. I pray we men be a better reflection of Christ to our wives and children.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, help us to better reflect Your image in and through us to our wives (or spouse) and children that they may get a better of picture of You because of how we love and treat them.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._