---
title: The Significant Other and Friction
---

Friction and tension are produced in the mind when one tries to make new ideas consistent with existing beliefs and integrate them (called cognitive consistency). Therefore, one tends to resist change. Greater tension results when considering a change of life style because of the Sabbath truth. But if the person has committed the life totally to Jesus and can sense the strong connection between keeping the Sabbath and showing love for Jesus (because it is important to Jesus and his/her relationship with Jesus) he/she will experience greater friction if the Sabbath message is resisted. Therefore, to minimize the friction between himself/herself and Jesus it would be easier to accept the Sabbath than to reject it.

**There are three steps in cognitive consistency**:

1. Develop a deep love for Jesus in the heart of the student with whom you are studying.
2. Present each testing truth as being very important to Jesus. Emphasize the “expectation” of Jesus. He expects acceptance of the truth and action.
3. Show that to resist a truth is not to resist a doctrine, but to actually resist the One who is the author of the truth—Jesus. It is one thing for a person to reject the Sabbath as a doctrine. It is an entirely different thing for him/her to reject Christ as his/her Creator and Savior.

**A powerful three step formula**:

1. Get your student to love Jesus deeply.
2. Present each testing truth as being very important to Jesus and emphasize that Jesus expects him/her to accept and act upon the truth.
3. Provide your student with an opportunity to express his/her acceptance of the truth by word and deed. Example: “Because you love Jesus and the Sabbath is very important to Him, (now provide the student with a definite specific action) you will let me pick you up and take you with me to church this Sabbath, won’t you?

A word of caution: Usually one would not appeal strongly for Sabbath observance after the first study on the Sabbath. As mentioned above it must be very clear, objections cleared, and evidence of conviction and desire must occur first.