---
title: The Bible
subtitle: Week 4
---

Consider the words you’ve spoken in the past 24 hours. How would you evaluate them? Were they loving, kind, joyful, uplifting, encouraging, frustrated, tired, anxious, angry, gossiping, or malicious? The Bible says, “Out of the abundance of the heart … the mouth speaks” (Matthew 15:18). When we have junk in our hearts, it comes out in our words.

We’ve all experienced feeling frustrated, tired, or stressed, and that state of mind changes what comes out of our mouths (often words we later regret). In contrast, when our heart is bursting with love for someone, it flows through our words. In the same way, God’s Word speaks of His loving heart and His intentions toward us. You can speak the beautiful promises of the Bible as you share God’s love and His blessings with your baby.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ Did you grow up owning a Bible?
+ How have you viewed the Bible growing up?
+ How do you view it now?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect

One of the most significant attacks Satan can make on you is to stop you from spending time with God in His Word. Keeping people away from their Bibles—through busyness, apathy, tiredness, or doubt—is his number-one strategy. He knows that when we spend time with God in His Word, it revives our lives and nourishes our souls, so of course he would do everything to prevent this! So if your soul is empty and hungry, open the living Word. Look for the many wonderful and encouraging promises in God’s Word and claim them for yourself and your baby. When you search with a humble heart, God Himself will speak to you.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

Both our attitude toward the Bible and the way we approach reading it are so important when it comes to growing our relationship with God. Read the verses below and write one word beside each reference that summarizes the focus of each one. Then discuss what these passages teach us about how the Bible helps nurture our friendship with God.

+ Isaiah 66:2
+ Proverbs 3:5, 6
+ Hebrews 4:12
+ 2 Timothy 3:15-17
+ John 17:17

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

+ Share about any times in your life when you’ve spent more time than usual with God in His Word.
+ How did this impact your closest relationships?
+ How might this impact your parenting?
+ Sometimes it’s not possible to spend long hours in God’s Word. But even a little reading of the Bible is better than not reading it at all. Talk about creative ways that have worked for you to spend time with God in the Bible.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

The words in our Bible have ultimately come from God Himself. God wants to communicate through them with us and every other person on earth who seeks Him. When we read them with a prayerful, open heart, they won’t be wasted. You’ll come to know God more, and His messages will fill your mind and direct your life.

+ What might need to change in your schedule to allow for more time with God this week?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Pray for each other and ask God to place a stronger desire in your hearts\
to spend time with Him in the week ahead.