---
title: Is Your Job Killing You?
date: 24/07/2025
---

_Jan W. Kuzma_

> <p></p>
> About the eleventh hour he went out and found still others standing around. He asked them, "Why have you been standing here all day long doing nothing?" Matt. 20:6, NIV.

Working persons, especially middle-aged ones, may face a health hazard at work. No, we're not talking about dangerous jobs such as walking on scaffolding or driving race cars! We're speaking about ordinary office jobs that require you to sit for long periods of time.

A study conducted by the National Institutes of Health showed that physical exercise decreases the risk of developing cancer. Inactive men were more likely to develop lung, colon, or rectal cancer, and inactive women were at an increased risk of developing cervical and breast cancer. Other studies have indicated that those who get very little physical exercise are more likely to suffer a hip fracture later in life and have a greater chance of becoming obese.

This study's results reminded me of a statement Ellen White once made: "Perfect health depends upon perfect circulation" (Testimonies, vol. 2, p. 531).

It is interesting to observe in the analysis of the Adventist Mortality Study that for men the factor that made the largest difference with respect to longevity wasn't smoking, weight, or vegetarianism, but exercise. Those who exercised lived five years longer, a difference twice as much as for any of the other three comparison groups.

If your job is an inactive one, get involved in a regular exercise program: use the stairs, walk briskly during break times, or work out during lunch. Turn "idleness" at your desk into some type of movement. Every hour take a few minutes to stretch, run in place, or do jumping jacks, or as you sit, exercise your muscles. Don't let your job be a hazard to your health. You want to go home with a paycheck and the health to enjoy it. The paycheck alone is just not worth it.

God designed your body for movement. Your muscles, joints, and bones need motion to be able to function optimally, or they atrophy. Even if it's the "eleventh hour," Jesus invites you to work to keep His "machinery" in good operating order. And remember to exercise your faith to keep your spiritual life in order as well.

> <callout></callout>
> Are you working for a paycheck, or for your health? What can you do to make sure your workplace is a healthy place?

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._