---
title: Household Harmony
---

> <p></p>
> “Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age. Also he made him a tunic of many colors” (Gen. 37:3, NKJV).

As it happens in many families, Jacob’s family had problems. Joseph was a cherished son. One day, his father gave him a multi-colored tunic as gift. His brothers’ jealousy had been growing for some time and this was the last straw.

When they were pasturing their father’s flock in a field, they plotted what they could do to end their father’s preference for Joseph. When Joseph came to check on his brothers, bringing food his father sent, they put their plan into practice. Even though all the brothers were not in agreement, Joseph was still sold as a slave and went to Egypt when only 17-years-old.

It is not easy for parents to treat their children equally. Every son or daughter has his or her own individual characteristics. They are different in age, likes, health and behavior. And this can lead parents to make different choices for each of their children. How we approach one child may not work as well for another child.

It is at this point that parents should use good sense. There is nothing better than divine guidance and open discussion to promote compre hension between children and parents. Careful talking can help a child understand that a younger sibling who is sick may need more gentleness, affection and care. Even so, parents should avoid showing special preferences for one child. This can cause serious injuries to the children’s character formation, for when they face life’s problems, a child can continue to be needy and dependent. Their jealous sibling will tend to grow up constantly rebelling against everything and everybody.

When parents show balanced and reasonable love to their children, they promote a pleasant environment of peace and harmony. Then the home becomes a place where the God’s angels are happy to be present.

_—Daily Meditations, p. 126_