---
title: Abide
---

God invites us to spend time with Him every day. Because we’re parents of babies, our days are perhaps the busiest they’ve ever been, but a living connection with God provides stability to us and our home environment.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Connect**

Describe a time you felt really close to another person. What helped to make this happen?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Explore**

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.**_

Distribute a reading of John 15:1–11 and read this passage aloud.

Then invite each person to read this passage again, silently, noticing words and phrases that stand out the most.

Discuss insights from the passage. Then conclude this discussion by discussing:

- What do these words tell me about Jesus?
- If I were to take this passage really seriously, what would change in my life this week?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Discuss**

Show a large leaf or a branch from a tree. It might look healthy, but, having been separated from the branch, it is already starting to die. To abide means to choose to remain connected. It’s the only way to live and grow.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Silently read the following thoughts.**_ 

Which one is your favorite and why?

- “We must individually hear Him speaking to the heart. When every other voice is hushed, and in quietness we wait before Him, the silence of the soul makes more distinct the voice of God. He bids us, ‘Be still, and know that I am God.’ Psalm 46:10” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 363).
- “The change in human hearts, the transformation of human characters, is a miracle that reveals an ever-living Savior, working to rescue souls. A consistent life in Christ is a great miracle” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 407).
- “As the flower turns to the sun, that the bright beams may aid in perfecting its beauty and symmetry, so should we turn to the Sun of Righteousness, that heaven’s light may shine upon us, that our character may be developed into the likeness of Christ” (Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, p. 68).

You may also like to read and discuss together the following passages: Galatians 2:20; Colossians 2:6; Colossians 3:1–3; John 15:10.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Challenge**

- Jesus Himself invites every disciple to abide in Him. What things in your life may have been stopping you from doing this? (TV? Work? Internet? Education? Children? Tiredness?) How might you work through these challenges?
- “For out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks” (Luke 6:45). How does this verse relate to the concept of abiding?
- What new habit could you start this week?

Living in an abiding relationship with God takes a daily decision, commitment, and time. But God waits for you every day to respond to Him (Revelation 3:20).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"}}}
**^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl"}}})**\
Look at the leaf removed from the branch. Take a moment to offer a silent prayer to God about abiding as you reflect on this message.