---
title: How to Present the Bible Study
---

Besides the basic points needed in teaching the guides, to make this as practical as possible, we have attempted here to combine with those points, at appropriate places, tips dealing with relating to the student/s to gain confidence and build relationships.

Most of these principles can be used at various times within any given lesson and throughout the course. (As stated above we are here basing these comments on the use of the “Good News for Today” lessons, but most points can easily be adapted to other types of study guides.)

- _Begin with prayer_. Utilize the lesson to introduce prayer. Say, “You noticed that in 2 Peter 1:21[point to the place in the lesson] the prophecy came to us by the Holy Spirit. In John 16:13 [show the place] Jesus promised the same Holy Spirit to guide us into all the truth.

1. “What a privilege when we study His Word to always ask Him to guide us.
2. “As we begin, shall we bow our heads and do that? Our Father, thank you for promising to send the same Holy Spirit who guided the prophets to guide us and give us understanding. We claim that promise. Thank you for guiding us in understanding your will for us as we study together. In Jesus’ name. Amen.”

- _Read the introduction_ or review its high points.
- _You will want to ask each question_. Say, “Perhaps it will be easiest if I read the questions and you share your answers.”
- As they share, _compliment them on their good answers_. (The good ones are brief. They are probably not understanding the answer if they write out the whole text.)
- If there is a wrong answer, _never say, “That’s wrong.”_

1. You are not only looking for right answers, you are trying to win hearts.
2. Say kindly, “We seem to have different thoughts on that question. Would you mind sharing that text with us again?”
3. The student will usually see the right answer immediately.
4. If he/she doesn’t change the answer, you could say, “Perhaps you would like to jot that in your guide.”
5. Your student will be happy with the perfect score that you will be able to give at the end.

- Avoid the “I’m the teacher, you’re the student” attitude.
- Take the, “Let us see what we can learn together” attitude. Do not pose as a Bible authority. Let the students know that you are a learner also. This will help them to feel at ease with you and will also help you. They won’t expect you to know all the answers.
- _Always listen and ask_ questions to be certain the person understands clearly. Use often: “Is it clear that...? That word is a bit difficult. Is it clear?”
- _Make brief, relevant comments_ as you move along.

1. Build instructions on their understanding and comments.
2. Don’t preach. You are not giving a sermon. Giving Bible studies is done by interactive discussion.
3. As you would not want to feed a whole truck load of hay to a cow at once, you would not want to attempt to tell your students everything you know at once.

- Use appropriate _illustrations_ to make it interesting.

1. An illustration creates a deeper and more lasting impression in the heart and mind. It is like a window that lets the light in and brings in fresh air. It drives the point home.
2. Be careful not to use too many illustrations.
3. Keep them short.
4. Your own illustrations are best. Constantly listen in church, Sabbath School, etc., to find brief stories to share.

- Move at the student/s’ pace. Constantly listen and watch the eyes and body language. If you see you are boring them, move to the next question. Don’t be boring. Make it quick and interesting.
- Remember to always be kind and tactful. Build bridges, not walls.

In gentle tones, make your presentations beautiful, clear and simple.

Keep in mind the following:

- “Your _success_ will not depend so much upon your knowledge and accomplishments, as upon your ability to find your way to the heart.”<sup>13</sup>
- Be _kind_ and gentle, never sharp. Jesus promises us all His power but, “Our Saviour’s power was not in a strong array of sharp words that would pierce through the very soul; it was His gentleness and His plain, unassuming manners that made Him a conqueror of hearts.”<sup>14</sup>
- “The _tones_ of the voice have much to do in affecting the hearts of those that hear.”<sup>15</sup>
- Stress the _blessings_ over the requirements. When appropriate, emphasis that God is not there to squeeze the fun out of life but He longs to give His children, as we do, the more abundant life (John 10:10), withholding nothing good (Psalms 84:11). At appropriate times, humbly tell of blessings you have received.
_Stick to the subject_. Don’t take all the freeway exits or you will never reach your destination. Here are some pointers to keep in mind:

1. Stick to positive Truth. Dispel darkness by turning on the light.
2. Don’t explain falsehood (the rapture, for example).
3. However, it is best to answer some questions before they arise.

_Never introduce ideas_ for which the student does not have sufficient background and is not prepared to receive. This can be disastrous. We do not jump to the top of a stairway in one leap. Lead learners one grade at a time, as in school. Follow the sequence of the study guides. Be careful in using Ellen White’s writings prematurely if you cannot first prove the point from the Bible.

1. If questions dealing with a future, controversial lesson are asked, do not attempt to answer them. This could be the devil’s way of getting you sidetracked! It is one of the greatest causes for dropouts.
2. If they ask, as an example, “Why do you keep Saturday for Sunday?” Say something like, “That is a good question. It demands a good answer. I could give an answer, but my answer is not really important. I’m sure you want to know what God’s Word says. You will be happy to know that we will have a study or two on that soon.” You might add, “You’ll be fascinated with what we will discover from the Bible.”
   - Remember, during the first six studies, it is vital to anchor the student’s faith in the Bible.
3. If the person insists on asking what you believe about a sensitive issue, throw the question back gently. Say, “Would you like to share what you believe? Then listen and show appreciation for his/her understanding. Don’t argue and lose the study.\
Example: When Mrs. Marca came to review the first study guide on the subject of the Bible, she was met at the door with, “Do you believe in speaking in tongues?”\
Now, she had no idea what her prospective student understood or believed about anything. She needed to know what the person believed before expressing her opinion or she could easily build a wall.\
She prayed and decided that she must first listen to find the lady’s opinion so she could build on her understanding. (Always pray first. Only the Holy Spirit knows what to do.)\
So Mrs. Marca threw the question back and asked, “What do you believe?” The lady shot back, “I believe it’s of the devil.” “That is interesting,” Mrs. Marca replied.\
She could now leave the subject until the appropriate time later when she could give a complete study on the topic.\
If she had said she believed in speaking in tongues, it would have built a wall between them.
4. It pays to listen before talking.
5. And remember; only the Holy Spirit knows exactly where a person is in their understanding and willingness to respond.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>13</sup> Ibid, p. 193; italics supplied.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>14</sup> Testimonies, vol. 3, p. 477.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>15</sup> Testimonies, vol. 2, p. 615; italics supplied.