---
title: Sabbath Afternoon
---

#### Introduction

Scripture affirms the reality that God wants a relationship with us. He has promised that we will find Him when we seek Him (Jeremiah 29:11-13). So today we begin an intentional search for more of God. We want to explore and understand how God looks at us and what He thinks about us. We also want to begin to understand His love for us.

#### Holy Habit—Relational Bible Reading

Relational Bible Reading is the first Holy Habit we will explore and put into practice. It is the spiritual discipline of systematic Bible reading for the purpose of knowing God.

The first step in a planned reading program is to learn the difference between informational and relational reading. Informational reading seeks to learn data, details, or abstract information. Relational reading seeks to know God better and to build the relationship with Him.

Relational Bible Reading is based on two biblical principles:

- “You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart” (Jeremiah 29:13, NIV, see also Deut. 4:29).
- “But I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to myself” (John 12:32, NIV).

There are three key questions which help make Bible reading relational:

- What does the passage tell us about God?
- What does the passage tell us about ourselves and God?
- How does the passage help us walk with God?

#### Suggested Prayer

_Dear Lord, I come to you seeking to grow in my walk with you. I commit myself to this seven week journey of seeking a closer and more intimate relationship with you. Thank you for loving me and accepting me in that love. I claim the promise that you will be with me and seek to open my life to you. I pray this and thank you for hearing my prayer, in Jesus’ name. Amen._