---
title: Sunday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today we explore two basic principles about searching for God. He has promised that when we seek Him we will find Him. And Jesus told us that we would be drawn to Him when He is lifted up. So we want to put these two principles to work and focus on our search for God.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear Loving Father, I come to you this morning seeking for more of you. Open my mind and my heart as I turn to your Word and reflect on your invitation to seek you. Send your Holy Spirit to help me find you as I study today. Amen._

#### Memory Verse

Below you will find the first of two memory verses for this week. Choose the version you want to use. (Feel free to choose a different version if your favorite is not included below.) Then write out the passage and reference on a card to carry with you throughout the day. Start out by repeating it several times now and at the close of your study time today. Try to be word perfect. Use the card to review the memory verse several times during the day and reflect on this passage and what it means to you.

> Jeremiah 31:3 (NIV)—“The Lord appeared to us in the past, saying: ‘I have loved you with an everlasting love; I have drawn you with loving-kindness.’”

> Jeremiah 31:3 (KJV)—“The Lord hath appeared of old unto me, saying, ‘Yea, I have loved thee with an everlasting love: therefore with loving-kindness have I drawn thee.’”

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

It is now time to turn to the Bible and reflect on what God’s Word has for us today. We want to explore how to know Him better.

Read Jeremiah 29:11-13—(Again choose a Bible version which is most meaningful to you.)

`What are the key points in this passage that speak to your heart today?`

`What does this passage say about God and what He wants for you?`

Read Jeremiah 31:3—Imagine God speaking these words to you.

`What does this passage tell you about God’s love for you today? What picture of God comes to your mind as you read these words?`

`In what ways would you like God to draw you to Him today?`

Read John 12:20-33—Use your imagination to picture the scene described in this passage.

`In what ways can you identify with the Greeks who wanted to see Jesus? Who can be the Philip and Andrew in your life to help you know Jesus?`

`Focus on veRse 32. In what ways do you want to see Jesus “lifted up” today?`

#### Commitment Prayer

Close your study time with prayer. You may want to pray something like this:

_Father in Heaven, I come to you today thanking you for your love that draws me to you. I seek to walk with you today. Help me to think about you and your love throughout this day. Send your Holy Spirit to guide every part of my life today. Amen._