---
title: Monday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our goal today is to explore what it means to hunger for God. We want to recognize the desire to know God which He placed within each one of us. This hunger helps us seek Him. The more we recognize this hunger, the more we will seek for God.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Almighty God, Something inside me draws me to you. I thank you for that as I come to seek and find you. Speak to me in your Word. Send the Holy Spirit to show me your will for me today. Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Take out your card on which you wrote out yesterday’s memory verse (Jeremiah 31:3), or go back to page 6 in this manual, and review what you began memorizing yesterday. Then reflect on what this passage says about you and your walk with God.

`You may want to write down some of these thoughts below:`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now it is time to explore what the Bible tells us about hungering for or wanting to know God.

`Read Psalm 63:1—How does this passage compare with your desire to know God better?`

`List some of the ways in which you want to know God better:`

`Read Psalm 34:8—What picture does this passage create in your mind? In what ways would you like to “taste and see that the Lord is good?”`

`Read Matthew 14:13-23—Imagine what it would have been like to be present that day. What parts of this story speak to you?`

`Why do you think Jesus wanted to be alone? Why do you think He hungered for time with His Father?`

#### Commitment Prayer

You may want to close your study time with a prayer something like this:

_Heavenly Father, I hunger for more of you. Help me taste your goodness today. Help me see you in the circumstances around me. Take this day and fill it with your presence. I claim your promise to be with me. Amen._