---
title: Tuesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today, we focus on Jesus’ birth and identity. We want to discover what this part of Jesus’ story tells us about how God seeks for us and how important we are to Him.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Father in Heaven, Help me learn from Jesus and His life. I open my heart and mind to you. Show me your love as I read your Word. Help me to know Jesus better. Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

`Today, we again review Jeremiah 31:3. Once again, review this verse from page 6, and reflect on how this passage helps you understand how God sees you. Make notes below on anything that stands out in your mind:`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now we turn to God’s Word for today’s study and reflection. We want to focus on the story of Jesus’ birth and what the names given to Him mean.

`Read Matthew 1:18-25—Use your imagination to think about what Joseph might have thought as the angel talked to Him. What would you have felt and thought if you had been Joseph?`

`Read Matthew 2:1-12—Imagine what it would have been like to have been there and watch the Wise Men or Magi come to see Jesus. What does their worship tell you about Jesus?`

`Read Luke 2:1-20—Focus especially on verses 10-11. What do these verses point out about Jesus?`

`Go back to Matthew 1:21, 23—How do the two names, “Jesus” and “Immanuel,” impact you?`

`What does the story of Jesus birth mean to you? What does it say to you about God’s desire to have a personal relationship with us?`

#### Commitment Prayer

Close your study time with a prayer like this:

_Loving Father, Thank you for Jesus’ birth and for giving your Son to be my Savior. Help me to know the reality of “God with me.” Show me your love. Help me to open my life to your presence today. Amen._