---
title: Wednesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our study focus for today is on how Jesus treated the Samaritan woman at Jacob’s well. We want to explore the impact Jesus had on her life and discover how God could do something similar in our lives.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Almighty God, Help me to see Jesus’ compassion as I read and reflect on this story. Speak to my heart and surround me with your love. Teach me to worship you, and help me surrender to you. Amen._

#### Memory Verse

Today we start on a new verse to memorize, Psalm 34:8. Follow the same process from Sunday, and write the verse and reference on a card to help you review and reflect on this passage throughout the day.

> Psalm 34:8 (NIV)—“Taste and see that the Lord is good; blessed is the man who takes refuge in him.”

> Psalm 34:8 (KJV)—“O taste and see that the Lord is good: blessed is the man that trusteth in him.”

#### Memory Verse Review

We also need to review Sunday’s verse (page 6) once again. By reviewing it several times over a number of days and weeks, we transfer the passage to our long term memory and further integrate it into our thinking and lives.

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

It is now time to turn to the Bible and explore what God wants to teach us about how He reaches out to us.

`Read John 4:1-9—Have you ever felt like an outcast? What does this part of the story tell you about Jesus and the way He treats people? How do you think Jesus would relate to you?`

`Read John 4:10-14—What does the “living water” Jesus talked about mean to you, and how would you like to experience it in your life?`

`Read John 4:15-26—Are there times when you feel like God is getting too close to the issues in your life? What can you learn from this story that will help you be open to God?`

`What does it mean to worship God in spirit and truth? How can you apply this concept to your life?`

`Read John 4:28-30, and 39-42—Reflect on what the Samaritan woman shared with the people around her? What is the importance of a personal experience with God, and what implications does this have for your life?`

`Reflect on the memory verse for today, Psalm 34:8. How can we taste God’s goodness today?`

#### Commitment Prayer

Close your study time with a prayer like this one:

_Almighty God, Teach me to see myself as Jesus sees me. Help me to look beyond my sin to your love. Help me worship you in spirit and truth throughout this day. Use me to see others around me as Jesus sees me. Amen._