---
title: Thursday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today, we will focus on why Jesus came to this earth. He is God’s greatest initiative to reach out to us and draw us to Him. We will begin to explore His purpose in coming to save us.

#### Invitation Prayer

_God in Heaven, Help me understand how much you love me. Open my heart and mind to the reality of your love and why Jesus came to live and die. Send your Holy Spirit to teach me today. Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Today we review Psalm 34:8, the passage we began memorizing yesterday. Once again, use the card on which you have written this verse, and review and reflect on it throughout the day.

`What does this passage say to you?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now we turn to the Bible to study and reflect on what God wants to teach us today.

`Read John 17:3—This is part of Jesus’ prayer. What does it teach you about why Jesus came? What is the source of our salvation?`

`Read John 18:28-37—Use your imagination to picture the scene in Pilate’s judgment hall. Jesus was on trial. What does verse 37 tell you about why Jesus was there?`

`Read Galatians 4:4-7—Paul’s words clearly present the reason why God sent His Son. What does this passage say to you? What does it mean for you to know that you have the status and rights of a child of God?`

#### Commitment Prayer

Close your study time with a prayer like the following:

_God of Love and Salvation, Jesus came because without Him we had no hope. Teach us your love, and help us to live this day with that love in our hearts and minds. Send your Spirit to make that love real to us that our hearts might be in tune with you. Amen._