---
title: Friday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today we focus on Jesus’ invitation to discipleship. We will reflect on how He called the twelve to follow Him and explore on ways in which He invites us to follow and be with Him. A disciple is one who walks with, learns from, and lives in submission to a master in order to become like the master. Jesus calls us to discipleship.

#### Invitation Prayer

_God of heaven and earth, Teach me that you want me to abide with you. Open my heart that I might know you and submit to you as Lord and God. Teach me to follow you and help me to experience the adventure of discipleship. Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Once again it is time to review the memory verse from page 12—Psalm 34:8.

`Spend a few minutes repeating this passage and reflecting on how God wants us to experience His goodness.`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

We now turn to Scripture to explore and reflect on the ways in which God calls us to follow Him.

`Read John 1:35-46—Note that Jesus’ call to His disciples begins with the invitation to “Come ... and see” (verses 39, 46). How have you experienced God calling you to “Come and see?”`

`Notice that the next step in the call to discipleship is to “Follow me” (verse 43). In what ways can you choose to follow God? How is His Spirit inviting you?`

`Read Mark 1:14-20—Notice that once again Jesus invites the disciples to follow Him. Also notice that the invitation came in the context of every-day life activities. How is God calling you to follow Him and in what areas of your life is that invitation coming to you today?`

`Read Mark 3:13-15—Notice that the final step to full discipleship is the invitation to be with Jesus. God calls us to the intimacy of His presence. He wants us to be with Him. In what ways and in what areas of your life can you be with Jesus?`

#### Commitment Prayer

Close your study time with prayer. You may want to include the following:

_Dear God, I want to respond to your invitation to follow and be with you. I choose to be your disciple. Teach me what it means to open my life to your Spirit. Help me live this day conscious of your presence and submitted to your guidance. Make this day one in which I learn to follow you more completely. Amen._