---
title: Counterfeit Love
subtitle: Week 2
---

We live in a world in which it’s becoming increasingly difficult to tell the true from the false. There’s “deepfake” technology, which uses artificial intelligence to create deceptive, fake videos of real people saying things they never actually said. Deepfakes can be powerfully convincing, as can many other counterfeits. The Bible warns us about discerning between the true and the false, and our discussion of love is no exception to this. There is true parental love, but there are also many lookalikes.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ As a group, create a list of ways that counterfeit love might appear between a parent and child. (For example: perfectionistic expectations, etc.)
+ Sometimes our own parents might not have loved us the way God intended. If you feel comfortable, share a time your parents “loved” you in a way that hurt or diminished your sense of self.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

Divide into pairs. Each pair can read one of the following verses about true and false love. Discuss the verse for five minutes, then have each pair share two insights from their discussion with the group:

+ Romans 12:9
+ John 13:34, 35
+ 1 Peter 1:22, 23
+ 1 John 3:16-18
+ 1 Corinthians 13:4-7

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect

Quietly reflect on how the following principles could relate to the love you have for your baby. Share your thoughts with the group.

“True love is a high and holy principle, altogether different in character from that love which is awakened by impulse and which suddenly dies when severely tested” (Ellen G. White, _Patriarchs and Prophets_, p. 176).

“Human love should draw its closest bonds from divine love. Only where Christ reigns can there be deep, true, unselfish affection. Love is a precious gift, which we receive from Jesus. Pure and holy affection is not a feeling, but a principle” (Ellen G. White, _The Ministry of Healing_, p. 358).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Weekly Challenge

+ Think back to the way your parents parented you. Are there ways they loved you that you hope to imitate? Are there ways you experienced counterfeit love that you wish to avoid repeating with your own baby?
+ If your parents loved you well, take a moment to send a card or text this week to thank them. If your childhood was not characterized by parental love, journal a message from God the Father to your younger self, describing His care and love for you in the midst of your most difficult childhood moments. You may like to include ideas from these verses: Jeremiah 3:15; 30:17; 31:3, 25; 32:41.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Ask God to fill you with His true, heavenly love for you and your baby.\
Ask Him to break any generational tendencies toward counterfeit love.\
Thank Him for being the most constant source of love in your life.