---
title: "What’s Missing: CH- -CH?"
---

_Paul Tompkins, D.Min._

I first saw the title question posed on a wayside pulpit outside a church in the south of England. The missing letters, of course, are UR. The church in question was highlighting that it would love to see more people attending.

There is a bigger picture also. It can also be said that what is missing are people that you and I know and whom we hold dear. The loss of young people through the back door is a real issue for the church today. It is imperative that we take steps to make sure that as many as possible of those growing up in the church will remain active members.

They are our family, friends, and loved ones. “The church can have no higher priority than stemming the loss of young adults and winning back those who have left its ranks.”<sup>1</sup>

As a church we have been holding global summits focusing on Seventh-day Adventist Church membership retention since 2013. As a reminder, the headline from the first summit was “1 in 3 Leave Over the Past 50 Years.”<sup>2</sup>

While speaking at a Youth Week of Prayer at a junior college in Scandinavia, I asked the question “Do you think you’ll still be an Adventist at age 40?” One young woman, in the top class, answered, “I hope I’ll still be an Adventist at age 40, but I’m not so sure about next year.” This illustrates that for young people the future whispers, but the present shouts!

Following the 2013 Nurture and Retention Summit the _Adventist Review_ published a report that included three affirmation statements. The first two involved a commitment to intentionally discipleship new members, whereas, the third of these stated, “Responsibility for ensuring that every church member remains part of the body of Christ, and for reconnecting and reconciling with those who do not, is mutually shared by the church at large, each congregation, and every church member.”<sup>3</sup>

The challenge has not gone away, for earlier this year, in the first quarter of 2019, the No 1 risk evaluation for the trustees of my home Union was “Children and Young Adults not buying into Adventism.”<sup>4</sup>

These are usually second-generation Adventist youth, and the question must be asked, What can be done to stop the hemorrhaging of one of our most valuable assets? These youth are leaving for all sorts of reasons, and some they find hard to articulate. Could it be that many just don’t feel the church of their childhood faith is the same as that of their adult faith?

### Personal Research

A personal research project<sup>5</sup> among young people who have left the church has brought the following convictions:

1. As a church we need to place in operation throughout the world church a plan that allows for every youth growing up in an SDA home to receive access to a basic youth-related Bible study course by the time they reach their fourteenth birthday.
2. This should be backed up by a youth first program targeting the key transition ages between 14 and 17. Widespread public campus ministry programs, including discipleship groups, are needed for the 18-25 age group.
3. We also need effective discipleship and spiritual growth for the 30s and 40s age group based at the local church. If we lose them, the fact is that we also lose their children.

Adventist young people tell us that the church matters, not only in theory or as something to believe in, but also regarding their own faith experience.<sup>6</sup> It seems clear to me, from both personal research and extensive reading on the matter, that young people want to see the following attributes in their local church:

- A spiritual home for all generations.
- A spiritual home in which Christian values can be lived together.
- Today’s youth crave participation and challenge.
- They want to know whether there is a place for them in their church.
- Service and mission are high on their agenda.
- Intergenerational family warmth and support is valued.

There are also many former or lapsed church members who want the same thing. In my research one or two respondents indicated that they did not feel that they had left—they were simply not attending at the time. They were taking a break from active participation, but that did not necessarily mean that they did not still see themselves as Seventh-day Adventists. From my research, 50 percent felt they would one day return, 99 percent still called themselves Christians, and 100 percent still had a family network in the church. These figures highlight a great amount of hope for the family and friends who remain, praying daily for their loved ones to return.

Allied to this, we should never underestimate the power of warm memories, roots, and a search for past identity. One of the respondents to the pilot survey I conducted answered, “I still carry with me and remember a lot of what I was taught. I get my children to pray every evening, but need to learn more so I can answer their questions.” Another stated, “My departure from the church was a gradual one. If there is going to be a return, it’ll also be a gradual one.”

### Roots and Identity

So what will bring those forces into play to help precipitate a return? Roger Standing, in his book _The Re-Emerging Church_, looked at baby boomers<sup>7</sup> and posits that “the search is about roots and identity, and a certain degree of familiarity will be helpful.”<sup>8</sup> He feels that almost on a whim many will try at least once to reconnect with church, and most probably with the denomination of their youth.<sup>9</sup>

This was certainly found to be true in another study of returning former Adventists who clearly stated that they still had warm memories from their childhood. “Eight out of ten persons interviewed expressed memories of early Adventism that reminded them of happy times in the church.”<sup>10</sup>

The search for identity is not static. Just as “it is part of finding one’s own identity that pushes young people to challenge to challenge the values of the parents and seek to incorporate a value system of their own.”<sup>11</sup> So too the reverse search for identity may well bring them back one day to their roots. “It is clear, however, that many youth who question their parents’ values and beliefs ultimately accept them as their own.”<sup>12</sup> Roots and identity are, therefore, a powerful combination.

Allied to this, no matter how long or short someone has been away from the church, returning is always a possibility. I cannot stress this point too much. In the course of my ministry it has become very evident that some members who have left the church most certainly do return sometime later. It cannot be claimed that all do, but those returning have included those who later become very active leaders at the highest levels in the church.

On one very notable occasion I met a young woman who had drifted away from the church at a young age. She had attended a church primary school and remembered making a decision as a young girl to give her heart to Jesus—it was specifically when a moving hymn was played in a school worship period. For some reason this was never followed up on, and she left the school, moved to a far city, and drifted away from the church. Many years later I was with a group doing a street mission in the city, and we were inviting people to come to a gospel concert. One of our group was still in contact and invited the young woman to attend. We had testimonies and songs being shared, and the young woman attended the church for the first time in years. When the last hymn was sung, tears began to come down her face—without knowing, we had chosen the selfsame hymn from her youth. She remembered this well and knew that Jesus was calling her home. Here we definitely see the outcome of both God’s providence and the prompting of the Holy Spirit.

When conducting my personal study, I formed some pilot study and focus groups, and these groups identified key life stages when a person may be influenced again to think of spiritual matters. These include times when things go wrong (financial, relationships, health, etc.) and when things are going well (marriage and the birth of children). Such occurrences are not respecters of age and can occur at any time, and then the same issues of roots, identity, and familiarity will most likely play a significant role in helping people set out for home.

As people set out for home, it must be recognized that both they and the church will have a number of issues to face at this time. Not all who return, for instance, will be part of a traditional family structure, and issues regarding marriage, divorce, and relationships outside of marriage will need to be faced.

Also, just as youth left at different times and for different reasons, in reality they will also come back in different ways and at different times. Put simply, not all people leave for the same reason and not all returning youth (or adults) will come back in the same way.

Members of local churches will need to have a heart for returning youth and be committed to helping them to reconnect and stay connected. We may have only one chance to get it right; otherwise, they may leave again and this time never to return.

### Intergenerational Churches of Refuge (ICOR)

There is no one right way to position a church, but at this point I would like to introduce the Church of Refuge program. The roots of the program came from the Center of Youth Evangelism in North America, and I have been personally involved since its inception in Europe and know that it has been developed with the needs of young people and the church family in mind. The latest generation of Church of Refuge material is the excellent iCOR<sup>13</sup> package, which offers a wholistic discipleship program that highlights relationships, spiritual growth, and mission, and empowers people for ministry. iCOR “has been developed by the Inter-European Division (EUD) and the Trans-European Division (TED) and is an instrument of the Seventh-day Adventist Church for value-orientated growth.”<sup>14</sup> It has 10 iCOR values that slot into these four areas. It should be noted that “the ten iCOR values are not programs that need to be run. They are life-changing, faith-nurturing values that are vital to true discipleship and Christ’s mission. They are indispensable in meeting the spiritual needs of young and old alike.”<sup>15</sup>

- **Relationships**—connecting, caring and participating.
- **Spiritual Growth**—worshipping and teaching.
- **Empowerment**—mentoring, training, and leading.
- **Mission**—serving and reconciling.

It is important to note that iCOR takes place locally, and when it comes to remaining an Adventist, the local church congregational climate is crucial. Young people need to feel warmth and have a place where their questions can be examined. These were known as the church warmth and thinking climates in the Valuegenesis studies that were conducted by the church in North America, Australasia, and Europe.<sup>16</sup>

A key area to the question at the head of this article is whether the church is ready for our missing young people to return. As I’ve noted from my personal research, it is very significant that 50 percent of my sample group indicated that they wished to return. This is not a definitive figure, but it goes without saying that the church would welcome back with open arms those who have been away. Here a caveat may need to be raised from the parable of the prodigal son (Luke 15). The caveat is this: What would have happened if the prodigal had met the older son first?

Recognizing this perhaps the question needs to be asked as to What is “Church”? “Church means a lot of things. Church—above all, that means you and your ‘brother’ or ‘sister’ in faith. Church—ultimately, that means us, a community of those for whom Jesus is Saviour, Lord, and Friend. Church—that is how and what we live together in faith.”<sup>17</sup> I think we would all agree that the church should be made up of father figures rather than elder sons.

For some, returning is easy and may indeed be to a local church. Others, however, have tangled lives and will need the ongoing understanding and support from perhaps a halfway house support group as well as their local church family. In looking to the needs of those who have left church, and may wish to return, there is no such thing as one size fits all.

As a church we need to affirm our ongoing commitment to all those who wish to reconnect with the church of their youth. There is now plenty of material to help a church make this step, and includes an _iCOR Information Brochure_, an _iCOR Study Guide_, and an _iCOR Church Board Guide_. More iCOR resources are also in the process of being produced.

What’s in a name? It may be that your church or mine will forge its own identity—iCOR is simply a means to an end. What is more important is that we are there and waiting for when the Holy Spirit impresses people to take that step toward reconnecting. You see, those who are out there are family. My family, your family, our loved ones. We must do everything we can to help them return.

### Lost and Found

Looking further at Luke 15, we have three very powerful stories of the lost. We know them as the lost sheep, the lost coin, and the lost (or prodigal) son. We tend to concentrate on the first and the last parable of the lost sheep and the prodigal son, but the middle and shortest parable, of the lost coin, is there for a reason. The coin doesn’t know it is lost, and undeniably the owner is the one who has lost it. She sweeps the whole house, however, to find it once more and then calls in her friends and neighbors to rejoice with her. This gives rise to the great statement “I tell you, there is rejoicing in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents” (Luke 15:10, NIV).

The aspect of rejoicing is an important refrain from the parable of the lost sheep (verse 7). It also finds an echo in the last parable when the father calls for a celebration and states, “But we had to celebrate and be glad, because this brother of yours was dead and is alive again: he was lost and is found” (verse 32, NIV). The theme of lost and found is how the trilogy ends.

The overwhelming thought in each parable is that absolutely everything was done to find the lost, or, in the case of the prodigal son, to be there when he returned. The times are different, but the principle remains the same. It necessitates someone to go out looking.

It must be recognized that just as there are many links in a chain, Churches of Refuge may well only be one link in the reclamation process. It is not important whether they are the first, middle, or last chain, but rather that they provide a strong link to making returning home possible.

The desired outcome is that returning prodigals have the chance to return to a church home that is ready and waiting to greet them. A church that greets modern-day prodigals in the same way as the father greeted the prodigal son in the parable of Luke 15.

In his book Christ’s Way of Reaching People Philip Samaan makes the statement “The church ought to be a refuge where hurt persons find healing and restoration in Christ and His people.”<sup>18</sup> It can be!

We began with a question. What’s missing: CH——CH? In closing, I would like to reflect that the way that the question is asked, and the way that the church approaches the question, gives the answer meaning. If we slightly reframe the question to read “Who’s There, CH——CH?” The answer, by God’s grace, is UR. With all of our church family, young and old, safely gathered in.

_Paul Tompkins (D.Min.) was the youth director of the Trans-European Division for 15 years, starting in 2000. In 2015 he served as senior pastor of Newbold College church. He currently serves as president of the Scottish Mission, since 2016._

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Roger Dudley, _Why Our Teenagers Leave the Church_ (Hagerstown,Md.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 2000), p. 37.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Ansel Oliver, “At First Retention Summit, Leaders Look at Reality of Church Departures,” _Adventist Review Online_, Nov. 21, 2013, p. 7.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> Ibid.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>4</sup> _British Union Conference Trustees Risk Analysis_, March 2019.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>5</sup> Paul Tompkins, “Bringing Home Our Adventist Prodigals: A Strategic Plan to Reclaim Youth in the Trans-European Division” (D.Min. diss., Andrews University, 2009).

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>6</sup> Stephan Sigg, “A Spiritual Home for Young People? The Adventist Youth and Their Church Seen From the Valuegenesis Europe Data, Part III,” _Spes Christiana 24_ (2013): 180.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>7</sup> Baby boomers are the generation born between 1946 and 1964. This group reaches retirement from 2011 onward, and Standing feels that when faced with issues of their own mortality, they will seek to reconnect with the church of their youth.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>8</sup> Roger Standing, _Re-Emerging Church: Strategies for Reaching a Returning Generation_ (Abingdon, UK: The Bible Reading Fellowship, 2008), p. 10.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>9</sup> Roger Standing sees in particular the baby boom generation searching for their roots when they hit retirement age (from 2011) and when they will inevitably be faced with the big questions of life. They are the generation that still has a biblical background, and as such he feels they will turn back to the denomination of their youth.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>10</sup> Tim Lale and Pat Habada, _Ten Who Came Back_ (Nampa, Idaho: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1998), p. 157.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>11</sup> A. Barry Gane, “Reclaiming Our Youth,” _Youth Ministry Accent_, January-March 2006, p. 17.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>12</sup> Ibid.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>13</sup> iCOR Information Brochure: _Building Spiritual Homes: Living Our Values Together_.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>14</sup> Ibid.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>15</sup> iCOR Church Board Guide: _Building Spiritual Homes: Living Our Values Together_, p. 8.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>16</sup> The Valuegenesis surveys have involved a major study of adolescence and youth of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. These studies have been carried out separately in the North American, Australasian, and European divisions. The European Valuegenesis study was a collaborative project of the Inter-European and Tans-European divisions in 2007.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>17</sup> Stephan Sigg, in iCOR Study Guide: _Building Spiritual Homes: Living Our Values Together_, p. 12.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>18</sup> Philip G. Samaan, _Christ’s Way of Reaching People_ (Hagerstown, Md.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1990), p. 30.