---
title: Unselfishness
subtitle: Week 10
---

One evening as a young girl walked home, a dark storm blew in. She quickened her pace, knowing there was still a way to go. A lone raindrop fell on her cheek, then another, and before she knew it, she was drenched. She started to run until she finally flung open the door of her home. Her father rushed toward her from the front window. As he wrapped a blanket around her shoulders, he asked her, “I saw you just now, in the rain. Why, with every bolt of lightning, did you stop running to look up and smile?” She gave another smile to her father, “Oh, I stopped to look up as God took my photo!”
The selfish person thinks of “me” rather than “we.” They believe themselves to be the center of everything, whether good or bad. They don’t listen or really care about others, and always want the best for themselves, yet never think of themselves as selfish.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ In your culture, how does society encourage selfishness? (Think about all ages and stages of life.)
+ Do you think it’s easy or difficult to raise an unselfish child? Why?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

Read the following Bible verses and write or share one word that best captures the message of each verse:

+ Philippians 2:3, 4
+ 1 John 3:16-18
+ John 15:13
+ 1 Corinthians 10:24
+ Galatians 5:14
+ James 3:16-18
+ Why does the Bible speak so plainly about loving others and not clamoring for self to be first?
+ Why is unselfishness such an important character trait to develop in our children?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Read and reflect on these direct statements and consider:

What might I need to shift in my parenting now, in order to grow an unselfish, loving child who reflects Jesus?

“Children of two to four years of age should not be encouraged to think that they must have everything that they ask for. Parents should teach them lessons of self-denial and never treat them in such a way as to make them think they are the center, and that everything revolves around them” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 132).

“The mind, like the body, must have pure food in order to have health and strength. Give your children something to think of that is out of and above themselves. The mind that lives in a pure, holy atmosphere will not become trifling, frivolous, vain, and selfish” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 188).

“One of the characteristics that should be especially cherished and cultivated in every child is that self-forgetfulness which imparts to the life such an unconscious grace. Of all excellences of character this is one of the most beautiful, and for every true lifework it is one of the qualifications most essential” (Ellen G. White, _Education_, p. 237).

“In every home there should be a self-denial box, and … into this box the children should be taught to put their pennies they would otherwise spend for candy and other unnecessary things … Every member of the family, from the oldest to the youngest, should practice self-denial” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 132).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

Create a self-denial box in your home. Show your little one how you put money aside for others, so that this becomes a habit for them as they grow. Instill in them a love for others and God’s work.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

+ Why do so many parents give their children everything they ask for?
+ How can you be more purposeful in teaching your child the important lesson of selflessness?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-04-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Ask God to show you how to be more purposeful in teaching your\
child the importance of self-denial. Pray that God will remove\
any obstacles that might get in the way of this important work,\
so that your whole family can reflect His beautiful\
character of selflessness.

This week, for a closer look at self-denial, read chapter 23 of _Child Guidance_.