---
title: The Remnant and Its Mission
---

In the last days, a time of widespread apostasy, a remnant of faithful believers is called out to keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. The Seventh-day Adventist Church fulfills the prophetic description of this remnant church. Revelation 12:13-17; 14:12-14; 18:1-4.

In addition to keeping all of God’s commandments, including the Sabbath commandment, the last-day church will also have the testimony of Jesus. The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy, or the prophetic gift. Revelation 12:17; 19:10; 22:8, 9.

The mission of the Seventh-day Adventist Church is to call all people to become disciples of Jesus Christ, to proclaim the everlasting gospel embraced by the three angels’ messages of Revelation 14, and to prepare the world for Christ’s soon return. Every member is called to be actively involved in fulfilling this mission. Matthew 28:18-20; Revelation 14:6-12; Titus 2:11-14.

The three angels’ messages of Revelation 14 represent the final messages to be given to the world by God’s last-day people before the second coming of Christ. With the everlasting gospel of salvation through faith in Christ as their foundation, these messages also include details with end-time significance: an announcement that judgment has begun (the cleansing of the heavenly sanctuary began in 1844), an earnest appeal to worship God as Creator (and thus to honor the memorial of Creation—the seventh-day Sabbath), an announcement that Babylon is fallen (because her errors have been exposed by the truth about salvation, God’s law, death, hell, second coming, etc.), and a warning against worshipping the beast and receiving his mark (a warning not to yield to the coming enforcement of a human-made worship that conflicts with the worship prescribed by God in His law). Revelation 14:6-12; Daniel 7:9, 10, 13, 14; 8:14; Exodus 20:8-11.

Every member of the church is called to be actively involved in the end-time mission of the remnant through both personal witnessing and corporate church ministries. On an individual level, members engage in acts of kindness and loving service, share truth-filled testimonies, literature, and media, give Bible studies, and mentor those new to the faith. On a corporate level, members get involved in important church programs and ministries that offer compassionate service to the community, publicly proclaim the end-time message of the remnant church, and provide ongoing education, nurture, and discipleship training to fellow church members of all ages. Mark 1:17; Mark 16:15; Luke 10:2.

**My Commitment**: _It is my desire to become a member of the worldwide Seventh-day Adventist Church through baptism or profession of faith. By the grace of God I will put forth personal effort to win souls to Christ, sharing the everlasting gospel as expressed by the three angels’ messages of Revelation 14. As a disciple of Christ, it is my purpose to fulfill God’s calling on my life to go and make others into disciples of Christ also._