---
title: Sabbath Afternoon
---

#### Introduction

Welcome to week three of the Steps to Discipleship spiritual growth strategy. By now we are experiencing some of the rewards of spending daily time with God and His Word. We are taking important steps into a deeper discipleship walk with God.

#### Exploring Lordship

Today, we begin to explore one of the most important aspects of the disciple’s life. Choosing Jesus Christ as Savior begins our spiritual journey with Him. Choosing Him as Lord is the next major step in the spiritual journey. In fact, it is virtually inseparable from the choice to accept Him as Savior. When we believe in Jesus for our salvation, we are saying that we cannot save ourselves and that we are surrendering to Jesus. The natural extension of that surrender is to accept Jesus as Lord.

> <p>Definition</p>
> The Miriam Webster Online Dictionary defines lord as:
> 1 : one having power and authority over others: 2 : a ruler by hereditary right or preeminence to whom service and obedience are due.

For many years I thought lordship meant God says it—I do it. Not any more. Today I understand that Lordship is far more than trying to obey God. Focusing on obedience leads to a focus on personal effort rather than on God. And regardless of how hard we try, our obedience falls short of what God desires or expects.

Lordship means recognizing the reality of who God is in our lives. It means giving Jesus Christ the appropriate place in our thinking and living. It means allowing Him to be preeminent in every part of our lives. So lordship begins with Christ’s identity as Creator, Redeemer, and as Sanctifier. In other words, it means letting God be God.

Christ as Creator (John 1:1-14) is the foundation or starting point for lordship. He is Owner of all. He has the power to control all. However, He limits that power to give room for us to use our freewill to choose to serve Him out of a willing heart responding in love.

As Redeemer, Jesus has moved us out of the slavery to sin (Romans 6:14-18) and into a life of obedience in submission to Him. He has freed us from the controlling power and dominion of sin. Through His death He has given us the freedom of choice. We can choose to serve Him, or we can choose to live in rebellion.

As Sanctifier, Christ transforms us and empowers us with His presence to enable us to obey. Through an intimate union with God, we are transformed and we begin a life of partnership with Him. His presence makes us holy, and His presence produces obedience in our lives. Obedience is impossible for us as sinful human beings separate from God. But as we grow in Him, obedience becomes the natural fruit of our relationship with Him.

Thus we come to the challenge of lordship. It is a choice of who will be in control in our lives. Will we seek to be in charge? Will we even try to do the right thing in our own strength? Or will we surrender to God’s love, presence, and power? Will we live our lives in lonely frustration and rebellion, or will we choose partnership with the king? Will we allow Jesus to be Lord of our lives?

#### Objectives For This Week

Our daily study and quiet time for this week will lead us into three primary objectives:

- To understand the lordship of Jesus Christ.
- To accept His lordship.
- To begin integrating His lordship into the way we live our daily lives.

#### Holy Habit—Holy Release

There is a Holy Habit or spiritual discipline that works naturally along with our choice to accept Jesus as Lord. I call it Holy Release. It is the practice of conscious surrender to the lordship of Jesus Christ in the details of our lives. It means choosing to trust God by releasing control to Him. It also means consciously choosing to rest in Him and not worry over the details of daily life.

Far too many of us carry huge burdens of care and worry that weigh us down and prevent us from enjoying the peace of God’s presence. Jesus invites us to bring our burdens to Him (Matthew 11:28-30). He promises to give us rest. Our part in this process is to choose to release these burdens to Him. We can do so by consciously using the following steps:

- Remember who God is as Creator, Redeemer, and Sanctifier.
- Trust that God loves us and is willing and able to take care of the details of our lives (Philippians 4:13, 19).
- Come to God in response to His invitation and accept His presence (Matthew 11:28-30).
- Choose to rest in God by transferring our burdens to Him.
- Choose to make the search for God and His kingdom the first and most important aspect of our lives (Matthew 6:24-34).
- Choose to offer our daily lives as a lifestyle of worship to Him (Romans 12:1).

The practice of releasing or surrendering the issues of our lives to God’s control transforms our attitudes and our perspectives. It gives God room to be Lord in our lives. It forces us to recognize our role in contrast to His. It helps us to focus on the things and activities that are appropriate for us while allowing God to be in control of the details of our lives.

This Holy Release is an ongoing process and practice. It is a matter of personal growth—
learning to let God be God. And it is a process that will continue throughout our entire lives.

#### Suggested Prayer

Here is a suggested sample prayer as we begin this week of study, reflection, and growth:

_Dear Heavenly Father, Help me to know your love. Help me see how interested you are in the details of my life. Teach me to trust you. Teach me to surrender control of every area of my life to you. Help me to release my burdens and worries to you. Let this week be a time in which I learn to rest in you. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

List below three things you would like to accomplish in your journey with God this week:

`1.`

`2.`

`3.`