---
title: Sunday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our objective today is to face the fact that Jesus Christ is Lord. We want to begin to explore the impact this can have in our lives. Understanding and accepting Jesus as Lord is the greatest challenge to the contemporary Christian life. We are not exempt from this challenge, and only as we surrender to Him as Lord can He change our lives.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear Lord, I come to you today wrestling with the concept that you are Lord. I am used to being in control. Teach me to know you and trust you. Help me learn to know and accept you as Lord of my life. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

We start this week with memory verse #5. We want to follow the same process we have followed during the last two weeks of using a card to help us memorize and review this passage. We also want to reflect on this text throughout the day.

> Proverbs 3:5-6 (NIV)—“Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding; in all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight.”

> Proverbs 3:5-6 (KJV)—“Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.”

We also want to review memory verses #2 (Psalm 34:8) and #4 (1 John 5:13). Once again, use your memory card to help you review these passages. Also spend a few minutes in quiet reflection as to how these passages can impact our lives.

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

It is now time to explore what God wants to teach us in His Word. We want to begin the study of Jesus as Lord.

`Read the story of Jesus and his transfiguration in Matthew 17:1-9. Try to imagine that you were present when this story took place. How would you have reacted? What would you have thought about Jesus?`

`Read John 1:1-14 and Colossians 1:13-20—These passages present Jesus as the Creator. What implications does this have for how we live? How does this reality define our relationship with Him?`

`Read Acts 2:22-39—Take special note of v. 36. What does it mean for Jesus to be made Lord and Christ?`

`How can our acceptance of the reality of Jesus Christ as Lord of our lives change the way we live?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Loving Father, Help me to understand how much you want to be involved in my life. Help me to trust you and give you room in my life. Help me to be sensitive to the reality of your presence with me throughout this day. In Jesus’ name, Amen._