---
title: Monday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our objective today is to explore further the lordship of Jesus Christ. We want to understand what His lordship is really like. For only as we know Him can we love Him.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear God of Love, Teach me to know Jesus as Lord. Teach me to know Him as the Lord who serves. Help me to see His beauty and understand His love. I want to trust you. I want to give you room to control my life. Yet I am afraid of losing control. So help me know you better so I can trust you more. Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Today, it is time to review Proverbs 3:5-6. Use your memory card and try to be word perfect. Review and reflect on this passage.

`What does it mean to “Trust in the Lord with all” our heart?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now it is time to delve deeper into God’s Word and explore the meaning of Jesus as Lord and servant.

`Read tHe story in John 13:1-17. Try to picture the story as if you had been there. What would it have been like to have Jesus kneeling in front of you to wash your feet? What does this story tell us about His heart?`

`Read Luke 22:24-27—In what ways does our desire to be first show up in our lives? What doesJesus’ portrayal of Himself as a servant say to us about our seeking for position and power?`

`Read Matthew 20:25-28—How did Jesus manifest the true greatness He presented in this passage?`

`How does the fact that Jesus came to serve us impact on your thinking?`

#### Commitment Prayer

`Loving Lord, Teach me to understand that true greatness comes in serving others. Help me see that Jesus’ example is the way He wants me to live. Help me to lose myself in you to such an extent that I’m able to serve others as Jesus did. Amen.`