---
title: Tuesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today, we want to understand just how much Jesus provides for us as Lord. We will discover that the only limit to His provision is our faith. We want to know Him better and trust Him more.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Almighty God, Help me to understand today how great your provision is. Help me understand the riches that are mine in Christ. Help me know the privilege that is mine to have Jesus as Lord of my life. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Today we want to review our memory verse from Sunday—memory verse #5, Proverbs 3:5- 6. Spend a few minutes reflecting on the areas of your life in which you are seeking God’s direction.

`How do you want God to work in these areas?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Now we will go further in exploring what the Bible has to say about Jesus as Lord.

`Read the story of the centurion in Luke 7:1-10. This was a man who knew how to command. What does his faith in Jesus tell us about how he perceived Jesus? What does this story tell us about what Jesus can do in our lives?`

`Read Philippians 4:10-19. What do verses 11 and 12 teach us about being satisfied with what God provides?`

`What does verse 13 teach us about what we can do in Christ? What are the specific areas of your life where you need this kind of power and strength?`

`How does verse 19 bring us confidence and courage? What are the specific needs you want God to supply in your life today?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Loving Father, Truly, you have loved me and blessed me in ways I can only begin to understand. Help me to accept and trust what I have studied today. Help me understand that I have all I need when I have Jesus. And help me to be open to your presence and power today. In Jesus’ name, Amen._