---
title: Wednesday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Our objective today is to make the lordship of Jesus Christ something very personal for our own lives. Jesus is Lord. This is a historical and biblical fact. But it has little meaning in our lives until we choose to let Him be Lord of every part of our lives.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear Lord and God, Allowing you to be Lord of my life is not easy, for I am used to being in control. Teach me to trust you. Help me know you well enough to be willing to surrender to you. Help me know and trust your heart. In Jesus’ name, Amen._

#### Memory Verse

Our memory verse for today is Matthew 11:28-30. Follow the process we have learned to write this passage on a card and begin to memorize these verses.

> Matthew 11:28-30 (NIV)—“Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light.”

> Matthew 11:28-30 (KJV)—“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”

#### Memory Verse Review

We also want to review memory verse #3, Ephesians 2:8-9, from last week. This ongoing review process helps us transfer the passage from our short-term to our long-term memory.

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

We will now open our Bibles to explore and better understand what it means for Jesus to be “my Lord.”

`Read the story of Thomas found in John 20:24-29. Have you ever felt like Thomas? In what ways have you been dissatisfied with a second-hand relationship with God? How would you like to experience God first-hand?`

`Read Matthew 22:37—What does this level of love mean to you? How can this take place in your life?`

`Read 1 Peter 3:15— In what ways can you make Jesus Lord of your life?`

`Read Matthew 7:21-23—What do these verses tell you about Jesus being Lord of our lives?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Dear Lord, I am only beginning to understand what it means for you to be my Lord. Thank you for your patience. Help me grow in allowing you into my life. Help me truly know you as Lord. In Jesus’ name, Amen._