---
title: Thursday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today, we explore more fully what it means for Jesus to be Lord. We also want to open more of our lives to Jesus as Lord.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear God and Father, Teach me your love. Help me know I can trust you completely. Help me to surrender, for only as I die to self can you be the Lord of my life. I cannot do this on my own. I can only yield to your miraculous work. So work in me today and be my Lord. Amen._

#### Memory Verse Review

Our verses for review today are numbers 5 and 6—the two verses for this week, Proverbs 3:5-6 and Matthew 11:28-30.

`Take a few minutes to reflect on how these passages can shape your life.`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

Let’s explore what God’s Word has to say in shaping our understanding of how to let Jesus be Lord in our lives today.

`Read the story of Luke 6:1-10. How is Jesus being Lord of our lives different from simply following religious rules? What does it mean for Jesus to be Lord of the Sabbath? How is the Sabbath related to Jesus as Creator, Redeemer, and Sanctifier?`

`Read Romans 10:8-13—What does it mean to confess that Jesus is Lord? Why is this part of the basis for our salvation?`

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:3—In what ways is the Holy Spirit involved in leading us to confess Jesus as Lord?`

`In what ways is God asking you to confess Him as Lord? In what areas of your life do you need to surrender and allow Him control?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_Loving Lord, There are areas of my life where you are still not Lord. Reveal them to me and help me surrender them to your love and power. Teach me to trust you enough to give you unlimited access and control. Amen._