---
title: Friday
---

#### Today’s Objective

Today’s objective focuses on learning to integrate Christ’s lordship into our lives. This is a continual process—not a one time act. And it must extend into every part of our lives.

#### Invitation Prayer

_Dear Lord, Help me learn just how much you can do in my life. Help me see your presence_ and power today. Amen.

#### Memory Verse Review

Our verse to review today is #6, Matthew 11:28-30. We started learning this verse on Wednesday. Today, we want to reflect on the areas of our lives that are a special burden to us.

`How can we bring them to Jesus?`

#### Bible Reading And Reflection

We now want to go deeper in God’s Word to explore how Jesus as Lord can make a difference in our lives.

`Read the story of Matthew 8:23-27. coMPaRe tHis Passage witH PsalM 107:29. What does it mean for Jesus to have this kind of power? Why was He able to sleep when the others were so worried?`

`What are the storms in your life that you would like Jesus to calm? How can you invite Him into these “storms?”`

`Read Colossians 2:6-7—How did you receive Jesus as Savior? How can you receive Him as Lord? What are the implications for living with Jesus as Lord?`

`Read Romans 13:11-14—What does it mean to clothe yourself with the Lord Jesus Christ? What impact do you think this could have on your life?`

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:57—This passage tells us that victory is ours in Jesus our Lord. In what areas of your life would you like to claim victory in Him?`

#### Commitment Prayer

_God of Love, Today I choose you as Lord. Teach me to grow in this journey. Open my eyes to your will and give me the courage to follow. Teach me to claim the reality that is mine in Jesus. Teach me to surrender and yield to your presence and love. In Jesus’ name. Amen_