---
title: "Rebekah: The Divine Choice"
---

> <p></p>
> “But [you] will go to my country and my own relatives and get a wife for my son Isaac” (Gen. 24:4).

Despite the great number of divorces around the world, men and women continue to seek a companion for life. When they are teenagers, young people start to look for someone to bring them happiness. The example we should take when choosing a partner is found in Abraham’s experience when he was looking for a wife for his son Isaac.

In those days parents decided the marriage. I remember, as an example, my visit to a school in Parane, Tanzania. One Sunday, while the young people having fun at a church social, a teacher directed my attention to two youth: “Pastor, those two are contracted for marriage. Their parents have agreed that as soon as they graduate they are going

to get married.” Like this couple, Abraham watched over his son and wanted for him a true partner for life from his own people. He asked his servant Eliezer to find a wife for Isaac. When Eliezer left, he was sure that the angel of God would guide him to the one who would be Isaac’s future wife. Abraham told Eliezer that God would send His angel before him.

After a long journey, the tired traveler waits in Nahor’s vicinity for the young women to come to the spring for water. There Eliezer says a beautiful prayer to the Lord and asks God for a sign. He requests that the woman who accepts his request for water would be the one chosen by God for Isaac.

The story is fascinating! Rebekah, whom the Bible describes as “very beautiful”, comes to the spring carrying a jar on her shoulder. After she fills the jar with water, Eliezer approaches her and asks: “Please give me a little water from your jar” (Gen. 24:17). Rebekah replies: “Drink, my lord” (verse 18). Then she gives water to Eliezer and to all his camels.

Rebekah was a dedicated, polite and hospitable young woman. When she hears about Eliezer’s mission, she invites him to rest in her father’s house. It is important to remember that not only were Abraham and Eliezer praying, even Isaac was praying and meditating (see verse 63). Choosing a life partner demands much prayer. Parents and children should both seek the Lord’s approval in finding a young Christian man or woman who would become a dedicated partner in the Lord.

Rebekah understood Eliezer’s mission. She also wanted to marry someone who loved God! When Laban, her brother, said: “Will you go with this man?” she replied: “I will go!” (Gen. 24:58). The later says that when Isaac received Rebekah from Eliezer’s hands, “he loved her.”

“True love is a high and holy principle, altogether different in character from that love which is awakened by impulse and which suddenly dies when severely tested” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 176).

_— Léo Ranzolin, Jesus, the Morning Dew, p. 59_