---
title: Show
subtitle: Week 5
---


To lead anyone to Jesus, we must show that we are authentic. This is true for us as parents because our children see what faith really looks like in our everyday lives.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Connect**

- Who in your life has shown you Jesus? How have they done so?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Explore**

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.**_

Last week we read the powerful words of Deuteronomy 6:7, 8. 

Let’s now backtrack to read the verses just before this.

**Read Deuteronomy 6:5, 6.**

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Discuss**

- Draw a picture (lines, shapes, key words) of the main message in these verses. What are these words saying to you? Share your pictures and discuss them.
- In one simple sentence, summarize the big personal message of these two verses.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Reflect**

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Consider these quotes and discuss whether you agree or disagree with their messages:**_

- “There is but one way to train up a child in the way he should go, and that is to travel it yourself” (Abraham Lincoln).
- “You cannot kindle a fire in any other heart unless you have one burning in your own” (Harold B. Lee).
- “Parents are the ultimate role models for children. Every word, movement and action has an effect. No other person or outside force has a greater influence on a child than the parent” (Bob Keeshan).
- “What you are shouts so loudly in my ears I cannot hear what you say”  (Ralph Waldo Emerson).
- “Children learn more from what you are than what you teach” (W.E.B. DuBois).
- “Those who are loyal to God will represent Him in the home life. They will look upon the training of their children as a sacred work, entrusted to them by the Most High” (Ellen G. White).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Story**

Mahatma Gandhi was asked by a parent to tell her child to stop eating sugar. Gandhi did not honor that request immediately, but said that she should come back in two weeks. When the mother came back after two weeks, Gandhi spoke with the child and honored the request of the mother. When she asked why he had waited for two weeks to speak to the child, Gandhi replied, “I first had to stop eating sugar myself.”

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Challenge**

What words come to mind when you think of the word “authenticity”?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Share responses.**_

- Why is spiritual authenticity so important to us as Christians and as parents?
- First Peter 2:2, 3 tells us, “As newborn babes, desire the pure milk of the word, that you may grow thereby, if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is gracious.” This tells us that no matter where we are in our walk with God, we should turn to the Bible (the “pure milk of the word”), because through the Bible, we come to know God.

**Commit**

“Your compassionate Redeemer is watching you in love and sympathy, ready to hear your prayers and render you the assistance which you need in your lifework” (Ellen G. White, Child Guidance, p. 173).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Personal reflection.**_

- What do you need to surrender to God in order to live an authentic life and be a godly role model?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"}}}
**^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl"}}})**\
(silent, individual prayer)\
Ask God to show you areas in your life that need to be surrendered to Him so that you can grow spiritually and lead your child to Him. 