---
title: Why Do Marriages Fail?
---

> <p></p>
> “Therefore what God has joined together, let no one separate” (Mark 10:9).

We feel sad and regretful when someone we know is separated from his or her partner. Our thoughts remember the couple’s wedding day and vows. Memories recall flower bouquets, the wedding march, the wedding party and the bride’s entrance. It is a moment of joy and delight. As couples stand at the marriage altar, the pastor gives them words of advice. Some of us would like to add our advice to the pastor’s— we who have been married for 15, 20, 40 years. We could help them, for they are completely unfamiliar with the dramas and battles they will face in the future.

Homes usually disintegrate over a period of time, not all at once. It is often an accumulation of growing dissatisfaction, misunderstandings, and small irritations. Then suddenly, one decides that they cannot tolerate the other anymore. They have lost all respect for each other! What a tragedy! An even greater tragedy is when one partner has no clue that the marriage is falling apart. Someone said that marriage is like our health: you miss it only when you lose it. We often hear people say: “My marriage failed”. It is not the wedding that fails, but spouses who fail after the wedding.

Divorce is a reality in countries around the world. Statistics keep climbing, but the one of the most overlooked heartaches comes to the children of divorce. They are the true victims. Lucia, my wife, is a teacher specializing in students who face dyslexia. She sees the drama up close of parents divorcing through the students she works with. Their grades are low, these children are not interested in studying, and they do not want to participate in school activities. They are angry, sad and traumatized.

Dr. Kenneth Johnson from Columbia University once said: “Imagine 300,000 children (today there are more than one million) attacked in a year by a fatal disease. Those children, the fruit of a divorce, will be emotionally disabled and traumatized. Compared to the impact of divorce, the chance of a physical disability is quite small.”

Speaking of children of divorce, a Los Angeles Times article once stated, “Falling in love, becoming engaged and getting married all are serious decisions. Yet most young people enter marital life with less care than someone choosing a partner to run a popcorn cart. Sexual passion, common to all animals, takes the place of love and affection.”

Someone mentioned four destructive wedges in the household: The wedge of time, when couples do not take time for family worship. The wedge of money, when it is not managed with true Christian stew ardship. The wedge of a social life outside the home, when both part ners spend more time with friends and criticize their partner in front of others. And the final wedge of household relationship: when both neglect to cultivate love through small attentions, failing to protect the beautiful plant of love, that should grow and reveal all the fragrance and delight of Christ who lives in that home.

“He gives grace for grace. There can be no failure of supply” (The Desire of Ages, p. 148).

_— Léo Ranzolin, Jesus, the Morning Dew, p. 178_