---
title: Why Get Married?
date: 07/08/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> That you may with one mind and one mouth glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Romans 15:6

### Observation

These verses offer a vision of the end-time community of Jesus and the significance of glorifying God; see Rev. 14:7. [Andrews Study Bible Notes. 2010 (J. L. Dybdahl, Ed.). Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press.]

With one accord (μοθυμαδον[homothumadon]). Here alone in Paul, but eleven times in Acts (1:14, etc.). With one mouth (ννι στοματι [en heni stomati]). Vivid outward expression of the unity of feeling. [Robertson, A. (1933). Word Pictures in the New Testament. Nashville, TN: Broadman Press.]

### Application

According to Pew Research, Americans believe that love is the main foundation of marriage. Most who never have been married say they would like to be at some point in their lives, but statistics show Americans aren’t rushing to the altar, and the U.S. marriage rate is at an all-time low — only 51% of adults were married in 2011, according to U.S. Census Bureau statistics.

Americans are more inclined to choose “love” as a reason for marriage than any other factor. In a 2010 Pew Research Center survey, love wins out over “making a lifelong commitment,” as well as “companionship,” “having children,” and “financial stability” as a very important reason to wed.

Among married people, 93% say love is a very important reason to get married; 84% of unmarried people say so. Men and women are equally likely to say love is a very important reason to get married. But love only goes so far. Most Americans cast cold water on a central premise of that each person in the universe has only one true love. About seven-in-ten (69%) people do not agree with that notion; only 28% do. Among those who do agree, men (31%) are slightly more likely to do so than women (26%). Young and old, married and unmarried are equally skeptical.

According to the website “Short Facts,” here are the top five reasons why people get married:

5. Security In Terms of Finance: Marriage is like a plan for the future. Two people bringing in income for the family makes the family unit a lot stronger and helps to overcome difficulties such as illnesses, college education for future children, and other expensive affairs.

4. Assistance In Raising A Family: When you have a partner working by your side you will have an easier time raising the children. Studies show that children that are raised by both the mother and the father are likely to do better than children that are raised by one parent.

3. Support To Make a Proper Household: Having a partner by your side will make it easier for the couple to invest in a home. You will be able to combine the money together and this will allow you to live a comfortable lifestyle. It will build unity between the two people and it will build character along the way. Marriage will allow the couple to have a better standard of living.

2. Romance Is A Must: The commitment to the relationship has a lot to do with marriage and it makes the marriage very formal. Statistics show that those people that live together before marriage are more likely to split up than those who wait until they are married to live together.

1. Lifelong Companion: When you get married you will have someone to share your thoughts with, you will have a date 24/7, and you will be able to go places with that person. Being married will allow you to have a companion in your life that is there for you whenever you need him/her.

All these five are good and valid reasons for getting married; in fact, these are the top reasons many get married. As Christians, though, marriage is more than a nice arrangement that helps us financially, emotionally, and socially. Marriage is an opportunity to fulfil God’s plan for our lives, to live His love and grace through us, to illustrate the type of relationship He desires to have with us, and that together we may love, worship, and serve Him. In Paul’s words, Marriage helps so that we “may with one mind and one mouth glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.” What an awesome opportunity we have, as husband and wife, and together with our children, to glorify God together.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, may our life as husbands and wives, and as parents and children, be lived in such a way that we will glorify you daily because You deserve it but also so that others may come to know you and the love You have for them.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._