---
title: Principles of Working for Missing and Former Members
---

In working for those who have wandered away from the church, there are certain fundamental facts we should understand:

Most still believe biblical truth. Most still believe the Seventh- day Adventist Church teaches the truth for this time. Even if they are not living in accordance with God’s standard they have deep convictions concerning the correctness of our major teachings.

Most dropouts do not want, nor do they need, lectures concerning the standards of the church. To tell them they will die of lung cancer if they continue to smoke will only make them defensive and rebellious. By pointing out their sins you focus their attention on their problem instead of pointing them to Christ who is the solution to every one of their shortcomings. As people dwell upon their sins and difficulties, they are magnified and seem insurmountable to them. As they look to Christ they gain courage and hope for victory.

The dropouts possibly have been hurt by their church or fellow members. In order to justify themselves they often will find fault with their parents, church, or fellow members. God has not appointed us to be defense attorneys for the church or anyone else. When we attempt to correct the missing members we are aligning ourselves with an institution or individual that they feel has offended them. We, in effect say, “We believe in these enemies of yours and not in you.” Our job in working with the missing or former members is to win their friendship and confidence, not to argue with them or correct them.

Many dropouts have something they feel is too great for God to forgive. Many feel they have gone too far, that God is not willing to forgive and save them. This is not true and we must be positive in our presentation of God’s willingness to forgive and His desire to save. Make certain that your heart is filled with God’s love so you will have an abundant supply to share with the missing or former member who needs to find his or her way back to the Father’s house. Claim this promise: “Christ will impart to His messengers the same yearning love that He Himself has in seeking for the lost.” <sup>7</sup>

The dropouts will not share their real feelings with you until they know for certain they can trust you. They may say and do things that are completely contrary to what they know to be right. If you show your disapproval or appear to be shocked they will take this reaction as a sign of your disapproval of them as individuals. This will destroy your ability to help them in the future. When they tell you how bad they are or how they feel, tell them that in spite of their past God loves them and longs to prepare them a place in His eternal kingdom. If you are a parent you can compare your love and patience with your children to God’s love and patience with His wayward children here on earth. And yet, God’s patience and love is far greater than that of human parents.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>7</sup> Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 235.