---
title: Sing in the Morning
date: 05/23/2025
---

_Georgia E. Hodgkin_

> <p></p>
> Sing to the Lord a new song; sing to the Lord, all the earth. Sing to the Lord,praise his name; proclaim his salvation day after day. Ps. 96:1, 2, NIV.

Imagine starting each new day with a smile on your lips and a song in your heart. Can you imagine a better jump start for the day? Such an attitude makes all things possible, and the day will indeed be a delight.

Some choose as their jump start a jolt of caffeine. How often have you heard, “I can’t start the day without a cup of coffee”? But as far back as the 1800s Ellen White told us that the influence of coffee is “exciting, and just in the degree that it elevates above par, it will exhaust and bring prostration below par” (Counsels on Diet and Foods, p. 421). Should we be surprised, then, that so many feel they have lost steam and need a coffee break by midmorning? They are just counteracting the letdown from their morning jolt.

Researchers have discovered that the withdrawal from the usual consumption of just one or two cups of coffee per day may lead to headaches. What the coffee ads never say is that the reason you later have that depressed, let down, headachy feeling is the coffee you drank earlier!

Coffee and tea lack vitamins, minerals, or any other health-supporting nutrients. The best beverage on either side of our meals is simply water, “the best liquid possible” (ibid.).

Begin each day with a helpful, health-filled beverage—such as water! And while you are at it, choose positive thoughts. Choose an attitude of gratitude that brings a smile and a song at the beginning of each new day. “It is good to praise the Lord and make music to your name, O Most High, to proclaim your love in the morning and your faithfulness at night” (Ps. 92:1, 2, NIV).

> <callout></callout>
> Lord, my gratitude overflows in singing this day. May my choices lead to a life energized by Your Spirit of faith, love, peace, gentleness, and joy.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._