---
title: Special Delivery
date: 12/07/2025
---

_Rob, Debbie, and Matthew Purvis_

> <p></p>
> In love he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will. Eph. 1:4, 5, NIV.

During a period of about six years our son begged for a baby sister, even though he knew it would be dangerous for his mother to have any more children. We had mentioned this fact to our cousin, who worked in the labor and delivery unit of a hospital, in case a baby became available for adoption.

Four years passed. We had long forgotten the conversation with the cousin when the phone rang one rainy Sunday afternoon. Our cousin asked if we were still interested in adopting. After we prayed and all agreed, we arranged to meet with the social worker and doctor within the hour.

Within three hours we had decided on a name and were looking at our little pink bundle. Twenty-three hours after the call we had our baby home, while our family and the church family arranged for bottles, blankets, clothing, a car seat, a bassinet, formula, diapers, and even a pediatrician.

Question marks ran through our minds, however: would we love Traci as we did Matthew? Would she respond to us? Would we make it through the adoption process? What if her parents changed their minds? What about Traci's genetic background?

Soon Traci's new daddy knew he couldn't possibly love his little girl more. Her mommy adored her energy and personality, and her brother delighted in holding her and tickling her tummy. Nothing else mattered.

As we've watched Traci respond to our love, we've become more aware of what God has offered us as His adopted children and how deeply hurt He must be when we deny Him.

The God of the universe has said to us: "I will make you my sons and daughters; . . . you shall become members of the royal family and children of the heavenly King" (Testimonies, vol. 2, p. 592).

If only we would respond as does little Traci—with utmost love and confidence—and accept the incredible honor of being part of His family. If we choose to be "specially delivered" by Jesus, we can all be adopted heirs of the King, and what heavenly rejoicing that will bring!

> <callout></callout>
> What does it take to be adopted into God's family? "Come out from among them, and be separate, saith the Lord, and I will receive you, and ye shall be sons and daughters of the Lord Almighty. What a promise!" (ibid.).

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._