---
title: Gentleness
subtitle: Week 9
---

In our fast-paced world, gentleness doesn’t seem to hold much value. Rather, we often see people who are overworked, rushed, stressed, tired, and empty. These emotions can rob us, and our homes, of gentleness. Instead, it’s easy to become harsh and rough in our manner.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ On a scale of 1 to 5, how gentle are you? Why might gentleness be an important character trait to both model and cultivate in your child?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

Together, read aloud Philippians 4:5, 6. This may be a familiar verse to you, but read it slowly, noticing each word and the meaning of each concept. Then consider the translation below. Underline the words that stand out, and circle the character traits you would like to ask God to develop in you.

“Let all men see that you are gentle and kind. The Lord is coming soon. Do not worry about anything. But pray and ask God for everything you need. And when you pray, always give thanks” (ICB).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

+ In what ways are gentleness and kindness connected?
+ How are prayer and gentleness connected? (How does prayer change our posture toward God and others?)
+ How might knowing that Jesus is truly coming soon prompt you to be more gentle?
+ Why is gentleness something little children need from adults?

Our harsh world, and the impact of sin, can rob our children of gentleness as they grow older. Yet our Savior showed us the importance of being meek, gentle, and peaceful, for truly this shows who is in our heart. We can accept this advice:

“Parents, be kind and gentle with your children, and they will learn gentleness. Let us demonstrate in our homes that we are Christians” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, pp. 218, 219).

“Many infants are extremely susceptible to nervous excitement, and the mother’s gentle, unhurried manner will have a soothing influence that will be of untold benefit to the child” (Ellen G. White, Ministry of Healing, p. 381).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

+ If you feel comfortable, share about a recent time where you could have been more gentle.

This week, when you’re tempted to feel frustrated with your baby, spouse, or friend, pause and pray for Jesus’ gentleness to fill you. As you model gentleness to those around you, notice how your interactions change. As you live a life of gentleness, your little one will start to mirror this character trait too.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-04-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Pray in pairs for one another and your babies.\
Ask for forgiveness for times you’ve not been gentle, and pray that\
you’ll see Jesus so clearly that you’ll become a reflection\
of His lovely gentleness.