---
title: I Don't Give
date: 08/03/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it.” –Proverbs 22:6

Kezia and her family lived in Lusaka, the capital of Zambia. They lived in the church compound, which housed union workers. With such proximity to the church, Kezia did not walk a long distance to go to church.

One day during their evening worship, the discussion centered on tithe and offerings. This was a subject that was very dear to the family because Kezia’s father was the stewardship director of the union. As the discussion continued, Kezia’s father encouraged everyone to faithfully return tithe and give offerings systematically.

Before the closing prayer could be offered, Kezia put her hand up, and her father gave her permission to speak. She asked, “Daddy, did you say we all return tithe and give offerings?” The father said yes. She shook her head and said, “No, Daddy. I don’t return tithe and give offerings myself.” The father and mother understood what she meant because they gave tithe and offerings as a family. They thought that was enough, but to Kezia it was not.

The following week they gave each child pocket money and reminded them to remember God. When they had an evening worship after Sabbath, even before people could be given the floor to share what they learned at church, Kezia’s hand shot up, and when she was given the floor, she said, “Daddy, today I gave tithe and offerings.” Everyone smiled and said amen. From thereon, Kezia’s parents gave their children money so that they could learn to return tithe and give offerings on their own.

Kezia’s experience encourages parents to give their children money so they, too, can learn to worship God through tithe and offerings.

### Appeal

As we give our offerings today and in the future, let us let us pray for children like Kezia to start giving when they receive some money.