---
title: Affirmation of Faith
---

In baptism and profession of faith services, those involved affirm the following statements, which summarize the fundamental truths of Scripture as taught and practiced by the Seventh-day Adventist Church:

- [ ] I believe there is one God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, a unity of three coeternal Persons.
- [ ] I accept the death of Jesus Christ on Calvary as the atoning sacrifice for my sins and believe that by God’s grace through faith in His shed blood I am saved from sin and its penalty.
- [ ] I accept Jesus Christ as my Lord and personal Savior and believe that God, in Christ, has forgiven my sins and given me a new heart, and I renounce the sinful ways of the world.
- [ ] I accept by faith the righteousness of Christ, my Intercessor in the heavenly sanctuary, and accept His promise of transforming grace and power to live a loving, Christ-centered life in my home and before the world.
- [ ] I believe that the Bible is God’s inspired Word, the only rule of faith and practice for the Christian. I covenant to spend time regularly in prayer and Bible study.
- [ ] I accept the Ten Commandments as a transcript of the character of God and a revelation of His will. It is my purpose by the power of the indwelling Christ to keep this law, including the fourth commandment, which requires the observance of the seventh day of the week as the Sabbath of the Lord and the memorial of Creation.
- [ ] I look forward to the soon coming of Jesus and the blessed hope, when “this mortal shall . . . put on immortality” [1 Cor. 15:54, KJV]. As I prepare to meet the Lord, I will witness to His loving salvation by using my talents in personal soul-winning endeavor to help others to be ready for His glorious appearing.
- [ ] I accept the biblical teaching of spiritual gifts and believe that the gift of prophecy is one of the identifying marks of the remnant church.
- [ ] I believe in church organization. It is my purpose to worship God and to support the church through my tithes and offerings and by my personal effort and influence.
- [ ] I believe that my body is the temple of the Holy Spirit; and I will honor God by caring for it, avoiding the use of that which is harmful, and abstaining from all unclean foods; from the use, manufacture, or sale of alcoholic beverages; from the use, manufacture, or sale of tobacco in any of its forms for human consumption; and from the misuse of or trafficking in narcotics or other drugs.
- [ ] I know and understand the fundamental Bible principles as taught by the Seventh-day Adventist Church. I purpose, by the grace of God, to fulfill His will by ordering my life in harmony with these principles.
- [ ] I accept the New Testament teaching of baptism by immersion and desire to be so baptized as a public expression of faith in Christ and His forgiveness of my sins.\
- [ ] **Alternate Reading for Profession of Faith**: I accept the New Testament teaching of baptism by immersion and have been so baptized as a public expression of faith in Christ and His forgiveness of my sins.
- [ ] I accept and believe that the Seventh-day Adventist Church is the remnant church of Bible prophecy and that people of every nation, race, and language are invited and accepted into its fellowship. I desire to be a member of this local congregation of the worldwide Seventh-day Adventist Church.