---
title: The Mind-Body Connection
date: 09/03/2025
---

_Jan W. and Kay Kuzma_

> <p></p>
> For as he thinks in his heart, so is he. Prov. 23:7, NKJV.

It's accepted knowledge that a strong connection exists between the body and the mind. Even a slight deficiency of 30 or 40 known nutrients can alter the biochemistry and function of the brain and result in such common emotional problems as irritability, fatigue, and depression. In order for the brain to transmit signals efficiently, it has to have just the right amounts of certain nutrients. What we put into our bodies does affect our minds.

But there is also a mind-body connection. As Mark Richliu, former executive editor of Prevention magazine says: "Your thoughts and feelings are the nutrition of your mind. Just as we need a certain balance of vitamins, protein, and other nutrients to help our bodies reach maximum health and energy levels, each of us needs a specific balance of mental 'nutrients' for a happy, tranquil, and creative mind. . . . People who have close ties to others, who share time and thoughts and worries and laughter with kindred souls, reap profound health benefits."

Although Richliu based his statement on recent scientific research, the idea of a mind-body connection is not really new. Here are a few amazing statements—amazing because they were published in 1905 when the rest of the world was oblivious to the influence of the mind on the body.

"The relation that exists between the mind and the body is very intimate. When one is affected, the other sympathizes. The condition of the mind affects the health to a far greater degree than many realize. . . . Grief, anxiety, discontent, remorse, guilt, distrust, all tend to break down the life forces and to invite decay and death. . . . Courage, hope, faith, sympathy, love, promote health and prolong life. A contented mind, a cheerful spirit, is health to the body and strength to the soul. 'A merry [rejoicing] heart doeth good like a medicine' (Prov. 17:22).

"In the treatment of the sick the effect of mental influence should not be overlooked. Rightly used, this influence affords one of the most effective agencies for combating disease" (The Ministry of Healing, p. 241).

> <callout></callout>
> When a negative thought flashes into your mind, push it out with a positive Bible promise.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._