---
title: Faith
subtitle: Week 7
---

Knowing God and having a living, strong relationship with Him requires faith. The Bible tells us that:

+ “Faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen” (Hebrews 11:1, ESV).
+ It’s not something we can generate of ourselves, for “God has dealt to each one a measure of faith” (Romans 12:3).
+ Faith is a gift of God (Ephesians 2:8-10), and even then, our faith in God is possible only because of what God is already doing in and for us.
+ Faith means trusting God and His Word.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ How would you describe your faith in God in just 60 seconds? (Do this together!)
+ In what areas of your life would you like to trust God more fully? What prevents you from trusting God fully?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

**Read** Mark 4:40 and Matthew 15:21-28.

+ How did Jesus describe His disciples’ faith in comparison to a Canaanite woman’s faith?
+ Just because someone is following Jesus, does it automatically mean their faith is strong?
+ What do you do with doubts about God, His character, or His Word?

God does not ignore or bypass human reason. He created us in His image and invites us to dialogue with Him, as He did with Abraham, Moses, and Job. God is also not offended by our questions and doubts. It’s good to be honest with God, even when we don’t know all the answers. Tell Him what’s hard for you to understand and ask God to lead and help you understand Him better.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect and Discuss

+ Think back over your life. Where have you had difficulties trusting God fully? Why do you think this has been difficult for you?
+ Have you ever tried to bargain with God? How might this be dangerous?
+ Discuss how you’ve experienced these thoughts about faith in your life or the life of someone close to you:
- **God gives me faith**. Even with just a small amount, I can grow closer to Jesus.
- My faith grows when I **hear God speak in His Word, the Bible.**
- **Faith and doubt can exist together** (Mark 9:24). I shouldn’t walk away from God simply because I have questions. God gives me the Holy Spirit, who will teach me all things (John 14:26) so I can “own” my faith, rather than borrow it from someone else.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#c18967", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
A few ways to grow faith include:

1. **Ask God for more faith**. Like the father who came to Jesus with a possessed child and cried out and said with tears, “Lord, I believe; help my unbelief!” (Mark 9:24), we can recognize our unbelief and ask for God to increase our faith. Ask God to show you more clearly what He is capable of doing.

2. **Respond to the Holy Spirit** and ask Him to shape more of your life according to His will.

3. **Exercise your faith muscle**. Remember that faith is not a feeling, but a decision to believe. Remember that even in darkness, when you can’t see Him, God is there (2 Corinthians 5:7) and can be trusted.

4. **Look for evidence of God’s faithfulness to you**. Pray that He’ll open your eyes to see His presence in your life, as this will strengthen your faith in Him.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

A primary goal of a Christian parent is to nurture the faith of their growing child. This week, talk to a parent who has older, godly children about what they did to grow their child’s faith, and how their faith grew in the process.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Look up these promises and claim them as an act of faith to strengthen\
your relationship with God today: Hebrews 12:1-2; 2 Chronicles 15:7;\
Romans 3:23-26; Luke 7:50. Speak them out loud as part of your\
prayer to God.