---
title: Helpfulness
subtitle: Week 11
---

The American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry says that “children who do chores may exhibit higher self-esteem, be more responsible, and be better equipped to deal with frustration, adversity, and delayed gratification. These skills can lead to greater success in school, work, and relationships.”<sup>8</sup>

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ What did your parents do (or not do) to teach you to be helpful as a child? (Think of specific examples.)

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore and Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

+ What do Hebrews 13:16 and Galatians 6:2, 10 say about the character trait of helpfulness?
+ Although it will take you longer to involve your child in doing household chores, this is an important part of shaping their character. Fifteen years from now what will your child look like if you do everything for them without gradually asking them to help in the years ahead?

“While they are still young, the mother should give them some simple task to do each day. It will take longer for her to teach them how than it would to do it herself, but let her remember that she is to lay for their character building the foundation of helpfulness … As early in life as possible they should be trained to share the burdens of the home” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 119). 

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Of the following tips, consider which are most helpful to you.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Tips for Toddlers

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Over the next year or two, you can be intentional in teaching your toddler to:

+ Straighten their bed when they wake each morning.
+ Help you “fold” clean clothes or put away toys or books after playtime.
+ Help you prepare food (show them how to wash their hands first, and talk about the importance of eating healthy food).
+ Sweep or help prepare for Sabbath.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Tips for Parents

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
As your little one grows:

+ Give them more responsibilities as they grow older.
+ Remember that you will need to teach them certain tasks. Show them how to do small chores, and if they break something or don’t do it well, still encourage them.
+ When you feel tired, resist complaining about the housework, as your child will also see it as a burden. Instead, talk about how good it is to work together to make a nice home.
+ As your child grows, work before you play, and do the hardest work first instead of last.

“You may be pleased with the brilliant intellect of your child; but unless it is under the control of a sanctified heart, it will work at cross-purposes with God” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 188).

Our goal shouldn’t be to have the most brilliant child. It should be to grow a converted, soft heart with a love for Jesus, and a full life of service, intellect, health, and care for others.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

+ Do you have any memories of serving others with your family? How did this impact you growing up?
+ How might you remember to instill a love for serving others in your little one, particularly as they grow older? What does Ecclesiastes 3:12, 13 say about our productivity and service bringing satisfaction?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

This week, for a closer look at helpfulness, read chapters 20 and 21 of _Child Guidance_.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-04-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Consider the ideas in this discussion and ask for God to give both\
you and your little one a desire to be helpful and serve others.

---

{"style":{"text":{"size": "xs"}}}
<sup>8</sup> Chores and Children, aacap.org.