---
title: The Amazing Infuence of Sabbath School for Discipleship Growth
---

_Ramon J. Canals, D.Min._

Christianity has been experiencing a continuing decline in Bible study and prayer. According to the Pew Research Center, only one third of Christians in the United States read the Bible at least once a week. Like many Christian churches, our own church is being affected. If transformation is to happen in the church, the study of the Bible must be front and center, for without it there is no spiritual growth. Ellen G. White writes, “None but those who have fortified the mind with the truths of the Bible will stand through the last great conflict.” As Seventh-day Adventists we are blessed to have a religious-education institution for members of all ages—Sabbath School! Sabbath School was designed with the purpose of helping its members grow in spiritual understanding as they get into the Word of God daily. Sabbath School has a tremendous qualitative and quantitative influence on making disciples and growing and developing the church. What changes must happen in local church Sabbath Schools to harness their potential to improve and enlarge the church? What is the secret of getting church members excited about coming to church early and staying in the church? These are questions many people are asking.

The answer to these questions might be a different kind of Sabbath School—a Sabbath School focused on worshipping God through prayer, Bible study, genuine fellowship, and uncompromising focus on mission. This is not a dead or boring Sabbath School. This is what I call “Sabbath School Alive”!

Sabbath School has been called the “heart of the church” for good reasons. If rightly conducted, Sabbath School can bring life to the church, just as the heart brings lifesaving blood to the body. In other words, Sabbath School has an amazing influence for church growth and retention of members. Calling Sabbath School the heart of the church might sound like a cliché, yet it is an undeniable truth.

Not only is Sabbath School the heart of the church, but its importance in the life of the believer cannot be underestimated. I like to define Sabbath School as an opportunity for developing relationships: relationship with God, relationships with one another, and relationships with the community. Thus, Sabbath School is about restoring relationships on the Sabbath day—a day designed by God for worship and fellowship. It is about worshipping God and making disciples—learning and growing in the knowledge of God (Colossians 1:10).

As in the days of the Colossian church, we face the danger of being deceived by the elemental spiritual forces of the world rather than growing by abiding in Christ. We face the danger of forgetting who we are and why are we here. We should never forget that we are people of the Bible and that we are called to prepare the world for the second coming of Jesus.

I was baptized into the Seventh-day Adventist Church at the age of 20 after a dramatic encounter with the Lord Jesus Christ. Although I grew up serving as an altar boy in the Catholic Church, I had never read the Bible. After my baptism as a Seventh-day Adventist I was given an assignment that I credit with helping me develop a love for the Bible and for Sabbath School. I was asked to teach the youth Sabbath School lesson.

Although I had never studied the Bible before, let alone taught it to others, I took this responsibility seriously. I began to study the Bible study guides and the Bible intensely, getting up very early every morning to study. One of the reasons I spent so much time studying the Bible was that I knew so little about it and I wanted to be sure I knew my lesson well when before the class on Sabbath. The effort of getting up early in the morning and dedicating hours to prayer and the daily study of the Bible were instrumental in cementing my faith and deepening my love for my Savior, Jesus. Reading the Bible daily helped me acquire a deeper understanding of God’s will as it is outlined in the Bible, and a desire to share this knowledge with other people. I grew spiritually as I spent time with God and His Word.

The result will be the same for anyone who decides to spend time with God and the study of His Word. As we grow spiritually, we become aware of our fallen condition and are more willing to become partners with God in saving souls for the kingdom of heaven. As we continue to grow in the knowledge of the will of God, we will learn to please Him in everything we do. It is this knowledge and a love for Jesus that keeps people in the church. We can devise plans and strategies to keep people in the church. We can try to close the back door and the windows and pehaps the chimney to prevent people from leaving the church. But unless we help them develop a close relationship with Jesus thorough the study of the Bible and prayer, all efforts will fail.

Church growth has been a subject of much study in recent years. Everyone in church leadership is concerned about the empty pews. As a pastor, I hated the empty pews. And I asked myself the question “How can I reverse this trend? How can I fill the empty pews?” Several years ago I was serving as a pastor in a church that had been declining for years. As I started praying and thinking about what to do, I realized that the answer to my questions was right in front of my eyes: the Sabbath School class. Yes, the Sabbath School class! I realized that all the resources I needed to bring revival to the church were right there staring at me.

The Sabbath School class is the perfect structure for church growth because of its size. Any expert in church growth will tell you that to grow a healthy church, you need to develop small groups. Why small groups? Here are 10 reasons:

1. **Jesus’ Example**: To grow His church, Jesus chose a small group of disciples. Small group ministry was Jesus’ way of making disciples. “You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you to go and bear fruit—fruit that will last—and so that whatever you ask in my name the Father will give you” (John 15:16).<sup>3</sup>

2. **Ellen White’s Counsel**: Ellen White encourages small groups focused on mission. The Sabbath School class is a functioning small group. “The formation of small companies as a basis of Christian effort is a plan that has been presented before me by One who cannot err.”<sup>4</sup>

3. **Spiritual Growth**: The Sabbath School class is ideal for spiritual growth. Small groups provide a special environment for experiencing God as we worship Him through the study of the Bible, prayer, and fellowship. “For where two or three gather in my name, there am I with them” (Matthew 18:20).

4. **Encouragement**: To encourage one another in a small setting is better than in a large group. Small groups help facilitate biblical applications to your personal situation. “See to it, brothers and sisters, that none of you has a sinful, unbelieving heart that turns away from the living God. But encourage one another daily, as long as it is called Today, so that none of you may be hardened by sin’s deceitfulness” (Hebrews 3:12, 13).

5. **Fellowship**: The best way to find fellowship is in a small group. Small groups provide growth in Christian lifestyle through shared experiences, victories, and challenges, in a familiar setting. “They devoted themselves to the apostles’ teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer” (Acts 2:42).

6. **Responsibility**: Sabbath School helps members become responsible for their own spiritual growth. Instead of depending on the pastor to nurture and care for them, through the small Sabbath School class they learn to care for themselves and for one another. The small-group setting can help members overcome sin through the encouragement of sharing struggles and victories. “Submit to one another out of reverence for Christ” (Ephesians 5:21).

7. **Discipleship**: A small Sabbath School class can facilitate discipleship more effectively than the large church (see Matthew 28:18-20). Small groups help fulfill the Great Commission to make disciples by offering a place to worship, pray, study the Bible, and grow.

8. **Meaning and Fulfillment**: There is nothing more powerful to help people stay in the church than a sense of belonging and meaning. The small Sabbath School class can develop projects to impact their community. Small groups offer the opportunity to serve God by helping others. “Day after day, in the temple courts and from house to house, they never stopped teaching and proclaiming the good news that Jesus is the Messiah” (Acts 5:42).

9. **Tender Loving Care**: The small Sabbath School class is effective in caring for and loving one another. Small groups are an intimate place where love and care are given and received. “Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you” (Ephesians 4:32).

10. **Success**: The small Sabbath School class focused on Bible study, prayer, and soul winning is resulting in church growth wherever it is implemented (see Acts 2:41-47). Wherever this methodology is carefully followed, it yields fruit! It is successful in making disciples!

How can Sabbath School be an influence to help you grow your church and make disciples? Here are three ways.

### I. Sabbath School Helps Your Church Grow Spiritually

Spiritual growth can happen only as we feed ourselves from the Word of God. Ellen G. White comments, “The beauty and riches of the word have a transforming influence on mind and character.”<sup>5</sup> If church members depend on the 30-minute sermon from the pulpit once a week, they will become weak, dependent church members. On the contrary, if they study for themselves daily and connect with God individually, they will be strong, independent disciples growing in grace and serving their communities.

Sabbath School is a tremendous influence on growth in the Christian faith and on maturing in Christ. Ellen G. White writes, “The influence growing out of Sabbath school work should improve and enlarge the church.”<sup>6</sup>

#### Influence to Improve the Church

Sabbath School is the very basis of our Christian growth; it is the daily, weekly, continuous focus on God’s Word that leads an individual, and the church collective, to grow in spiritual strength. The emphasis on Sabbath School, and Sabbath School attendance, is vital if the individual and the church are to flourish in spiritual growth and biblical understanding.

The influence of Sabbath School in the growth of the church cannot be underestimated. Sabbath School, if rightly conducted, can be an agency for growth in the church by helping its members know God and develop a close relationship with Jesus. There is nothing more effective for spiritual development than the study of the Bible. Satan is aware of the power of the Bible for spiritual transformation and for keeping people connected to Jesus and active in the church. Ellen G. White asserts, “Satan well knows that all whom he can lead to neglect prayer and searching of the Scriptures, will be overcome by his attacks. Therefore he invents every possible device to engross the mind.”<sup>7</sup> This is why we must do everything possible to help people love and study the Bible. People cannot love Jesus, who is our life, if they don’t know the Bible, because it is in the Bible that Jesus is revealed.

### II. Sabbath School Helps Your Church Grow Numerically

#### Influence to Enlarge the Church

To enlarge the church means simply to make it bigger—to help it grow. Sabbath School can enlarge the church by teaching members how to give Bible studies, how to share their faith, how to work in their communities, and how to make disciples. The importance of Sabbath School as an instrument for church growth was clearly set forth by Ellen G. White when she said, “The object of Sabbath school work should be the ingathering of souls.”<sup>8</sup> Notice that she saw Sabbath School as an institution that could help enlarge the church through numerical growth.

#### Mandate to Make Disciples

The Great Commission of Jesus is a mandate to make disciples. Therefore, making disciples should be a priority for any pastor or church leader who wishes to follow in the footsteps of the Master. The Sabbath School class has the perfect structure for discipleship and disciple-making.

The Gospel of Matthew introduces the beginning of Jesus’ public ministry with His preaching the arrival of the Kingdom of God (Matthew 4:17). “Follow me, and I will send you out to fish for people” (verse 19). “Go rather to the lost sheep of Israel. As you go, proclaim this message: The kingdom of heaven has come near” (Matthew 10:6, 7). After Jesus’ resurrection He gave His disciples His final all-encompassing command to make disciples of all nations (see Matthew 28:19). With this command Jesus created a self-perpetuating, living organism that will never run out of human resources. Sabbath School, if done correctly, can be a powerful instrument in making disciples.

### III. Sabbath School Keeps Your Church United Theologically

#### Sabbath School is the instrument designed by God to keep the church

together theologically, because Sabbath School is the vehicle through which the universal message of the three angels of Revelation 14 is proclaimed to its members. The global perspective of the SDA Church is acquired through the Sabbath School. If Sabbath School disappeared, the church would lose its integrity as a world church. Thus, Sabbath School is the golden thread that keeps the Seventh-day Adventist Church united theologically and sociologically.

A study conducted by the General Conference Department of Archives, Statistics, and Research found two important factors regarding Sabbath School. The first factor was that Sabbath School is a powerful, positive influence in church life around the world. The study found that the adult Sabbath School lessons are well liked and regarded as spiritually beneficial by church members everywhere. So too is the overall experience of Sabbath School. The researcher, David Trim, concluded that “it is a strength on which the church should build.”<sup>9</sup>

Another important takeaway from the study, Trimm reported, was that less than half of all Seventh-day Adventists worldwide have experienced any denominational education, and many pastors have had limited Adventist education. Although the percentage of church members who have attended Adventist educational institutions partly reflects rapid church growth rather than lack of commitment to denominational education, this means there is a growing need for education for the children of the many recent converts. There is also a need for pastors to receive a thorough and distinctively Adventist training and to have opportunities for continuing education.

### Conclusion

As I travel and speak with church leaders around the world, one thing has become clear. They feel that people are not attending Sabbath School and church in some places because those places have lost their focus on mission. And because of the weak spiritual condition of the members.

Sabbath School was created to strengthen the spiritual lives of the members as they study the Bible and seek to share their faith with other people. It is one of the divinely appointed methods for instilling the gospel in every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. The key to church growth and Sabbath School revival is every member involved in the mission of saving souls by practicing what they have learned in Sabbath School. “The Lord desires that those who are engaged in the Sabbath school work should be missionaries, able to go forth to the towns and villages that surround the church, and give the light of life to those who sit in darkness.”<sup>10</sup>

The writings of Ellen G. White affirm that those who engage in Sabbath School work should be men and women of faith, humility, consecration, and spiritual knowledge. They will then be able to go forth into the world to share God’s amazing love for His children. The Great Commission of Jesus was not for church growth. The Great Commission was to make disciples. However, if we make disciples instead of members, the church will grow exponentially. It’s worth noting that Jesus’ mandate necessitates that the church train laypeople for evangelism. Encouraging Sabbath School classes to be actively involved in their community is one way people of any language or ethnic background can be motivated, trained, and equipped to fulfill Christ’s mandate. Then, as the disciples grow spiritually, the church will grow numerically.

_Ramon J. Canals is the director of the Sabbath School and Personal Ministries Department of the General Conference. Previously he was vice president of the North Pacific Union Conference and also served as evangelist, evangelism coordinator, and ministerial and Hispanic ministries director. He graduated from Central American Adventist University in Costa Rica (B.A.). He also holds a Master of Divinity (M.Div.) and a Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) from Andrews University. Canals’ mission is to encourage, energize, empower, and equip the saints for the mission of saving souls. Canals enjoys racquetball, reading, music, and memorizing entire chapters and books of the Bible. He is married to Aurora, an assistant treasurer at the Chesapeake Conference who holds a Bachelor of Business Administration. They have two adult children, Jessica and Gabriel, and three beautiful grandchildren._

**Endnotes:**

<sup>1</sup> https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/04/14/5-facts-on-how-americans-view-thebible-and-other-religious-texts/.

<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Great Controversy_ (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1911), p. 593.

<sup>3</sup> Bible texts in this article are from the New International Version.

<sup>4</sup> Ellen G. White, _Evangelism_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1946), p. 115.

<sup>5</sup> Ellen G. White, _Christ’s Object Lessons_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1900, 1941), p. 132.

<sup>6</sup> Ellen G. White, _Counsels on Sabbath School Work_ (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1938), p. 9. (Italics supplied.)

<sup>7</sup> E. G. White, _The Great Controversy_, p. 519.

<sup>8</sup> E. G. White, _Counsels on Sabbath School Work_, p. 61.

<sup>9</sup> David Trim, _Strategic Issues From Global Research_ (Silver Spring, Md.: General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, 2011-2013).

<sup>10</sup> Ellen G. White, in _Sabbath School Worker_, Sept. 1, 1892, p. 74.