---
title: Pride and Humility
subtitle: Week 3
---

Pride. When you think of this word, you might think of a peacock, a proud politician, or someone famous. The definition of pride in the _Merriam Webster Dictionary_ is “a feeling that you are more important or better than other people.” Notice the beginning of the definition: “_a feeling_.”

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect Privately

+ When did you last struggle with pride? What was the result of your pride?

It’s so easy for us to exalt ourselves. Sometimes it becomes second nature to let others know of our accomplishments and how good we think we are. But what does God think about this?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

A wealthy mother stands at the entrance of Sabbath School and greets other parents as they enter with their children. She points out her child’s new clothes and proudly shares how advanced her child is in his motor skills. She then gives advice to other parents about how they can help their children develop more quickly. Another mother quietly enters, her child’s hand clasped tightly in hers. This mother’s head hangs low, and she sits down quickly, feeling inadequate because of circumstances out of her control.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

+ What do you think of these two mothers? How do you think Jesus would react if He were to walk into that Sabbath School class? **Read** Luke 18:9-14 to catch an inside picture.
+ What is challenging in this story?
+ What does God think of the proud? How can we share our successful moments without becoming proud? **Read** 1 Peter 5:5.
+ What can we learn from Jesus about pride? **Read** Luke 22:27.

Jesus also counsels us to take the lowest seat and let the host elevate you if they so wish (Luke 14:8). This upside-down kingdom that Jesus teaches about is the exact opposite of how the world tells us to be. Our greatest enemy is self. Problems arise in our lives when we start comparing ourselves, and our children, to others. When we’re proud, we stand in our own way of coming close to God, because we think we know everything already and think we don’t need Him.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Commit

The closer you come to Jesus, the more self will disappear. Slowly read the following quote and imagine the scene. Commit to taking a step closer to Him this week.

> “When we see Jesus, a Man of Sorrows and acquainted with grief, working to save the lost, slighted, scorned, derided, driven from city to city till His mission was accomplished; when we behold Him in Gethsemane, sweating great drops of blood, and on the cross dying in agony—when we see this, self will no longer clamor to be recognized” (Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, p. 439).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

+ Why is humility an important character trait to nurture in yourself and in your baby, particularly as they grow older?
+ What might you need to change in your life so that you may walk more humbly with God?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Ask God to take your heart, and to keep it pure, despite your\
inadequacies. Ask Him to shape your character to reflect His, so that you\
can show His love to your baby and your family.