---
title: Love Protects Children
date: 06/05/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> A man from the tribe of Levi married a woman who was a descendant of Levi. 2And the woman became pregnant and gave birth to a son. When she saw that he was a healthy child, she hid him for three months. 3But when she was no longer able to hide him, she took a papyrus basket for him and sealed it with bitumin and pitch. Then she put the child in it and set it among the reeds along the edge of the Nile. 4And his sister stationed herself at a distance, to find out what would happen to him. (Exodus 2:1-4 NET)

### Observation

Since God thwarted the Egyptians’ plans to destroy the Israelite male children and thus Moses was born, he was cared for by his own mother. The task was challenging from day one, but more so as the baby grew and made the normal noises children that age make. Fearing that he would be discovered and harmed, she hid him in a basket, away from populated areas, and under the watch care of his older sister.

### Application

While some are aborting their children because they would inconvenience their lives or others abandon them, neglect them, abuse them, or murder them, Moses’ mother risked her own safety to ensure that of her son. How can we ensure the safety and protection of our children today? Some thoughts:

1. Spending as much time with them throughout their growing years.

2. Providing a safe environment in which to grow up.

3. Guarding the influences around them – friends, media, school, etc.

4. Giving such an example that they can safely follow.

5. Providing for their needs – physically, emotionally, and most of all, spiritually.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, as much as we wish to protect our children, we pray that You surrounded with Your protection, with Your holy angels, with the guidance of Your Holy Spirit. May no harm or danger come their way, and through their life experience may they see Your hand in their lives.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._