---
title: Tips for the Beginner Sabbath School Teacher
---

- **^[Create time for your own personal relationship with God]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: As you prepare each week, focus on the spiritual concepts that are at the core of the lesson. Spend time in prayer, offering your efforts to God and seeking His blessing on the children and program. 
- **^[Love]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: A main goal of this curriculum is to show and tell of Jesus’ love to the children through simple stories in the Bible. More important than anything else at this age is to emphasize how much God and Jesus love them, how much their parents love them, and how much you (the Sabbath School teacher) love them. Show love to both children and their parents, and your Sabbath School will flourish. 
- **^[Trust]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: The Beginner children need a teacher they can trust. It’s important for the Sabbath School teacher to try to be there most Sabbaths. Treat the children lovingly and kindly—not loudly, angrily, or with rough movements—and show them that you will keep your promises.
- **^[Obedience]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: “One of the first lessons a child needs to learn is the lesson of obedience. Before he is old enough to reason, he must be taught to obey” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 82). Include songs, stories, Bible stories, and activities that lovingly teach the children to obey their parents. Young children love to identify with animals, so animal families can be used very effectively to teach obedience.
- **^[The Bible]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})** is our sure foundation, so in all your interactions, discussions, and activities, remember to point the children and parents to God’s living, powerful Word.
- **^[Consistency]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: Be consistent with what you expect, and the Beginner child will follow your routine. Because the Beginner-age child likes consistency, it is ideal for one Sabbath School teacher to lead the program each week to build trust and confidence in the children. 
- **^[Routines]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: Keep many of your routines, songs, and activities the same for the entire year. When the children hear certain songs, they will understand what comes next. 
- **^[Music]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: Music is a very important part of learning for the Beginner child. All music can be found at www.aliveinjesus.info.
- **^[Culture]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: Be intentional about the culture you foster in your Sabbath School room. Make this a place where both little children and their caregivers (parents, grandparents, friends) want to come. Do this by showing warmth, care, and genuine interest in the families as they arrive, and being joyful in your manner as you teach. Make your Sabbath School a place for making community connections with parents and children.
- **^[Adult Assistant]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: Ensure that you always have at least one other adult helper in the room with you. They can welcome parents and assist you as needed. 
- **^[Adapt]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: This is a new, global Sabbath School curriculum, written for hundreds of cultures. You will no doubt find some things that need adjusting and adapting to meet the needs of the kids in front of you. Pray for wisdom about what and how to use this curriculum, while staying true to its goals. 
- **^[Engagement]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: Intentionally demonstrate methods that show God’s ways and His love through hands-on, multisensory activities. Invite parents to actively engage with their child during the Sabbath School program by providing specific instructions for them throughout the songs and activities. Encourage families to repeat the activities throughout the week at home. 
- **^[Know the Children and their Parents]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: Your genuine interest and desire to get to know each child and their parents/caregivers can be a powerful demonstration of God’s love. Learn their names to personalize your interactions with each one. Discover each child’s interests and joys and adapt the program as needed. See the parents/caregivers as part of your Sabbath School’s ministry and interact and pray with the parents before Sabbath School begins. 
- **^[Repetition]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: The Beginner child likes repetition and feels secure and confident when they know what to expect each week they come to Sabbath School. The first week of a new program can be unsettling for them. Young children benefit from a single program that varies little over a quarter and thrive on anticipating what comes next. By repeating the same tasks over and over, they organize the information and gain increased control and coordination for learning new skills. For this reason, the quarterly Beginner program is the same each week, other than the small Bible story segment that aligns with the weekly student guide. 
- **^[Be Prepared]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**:  Both you and the Beginner children will find more enjoyment in the Sabbath School experience if you are comfortable and familiar with the program. Having an organized classroom with resources readily available as you transition through the program, will help your class to run smoothly. Try to keep the program moving, while not rushing, to actively engage the children. 
- **^[Special Needs]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**: Create a Sabbath School classroom where children with special needs feel welcome and valued. Successful inclusion can occur by having some simple adapted materials on hand and a classroom design that is sensitive to a variety of sensory and mobility needs. Some things to consider are: pictures to assist with transitions, walkways, seating space available for walkers and wheelchairs, easy-grip items, fidget items, and a calm space for a sensory break if a child becomes overwhelmed. Seek input from parents and caregivers and involve them in the process of creating an inclusive Sabbath School experience.
- **^[Involve Families]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}})**:  Include parents and caregivers in the weekly program wherever possible. Invite them to assist you when setting up each new program, and train someone who can step in when you are unable to be there.

{"style": {"text": {"color": "#58b0e3"}}}
_**Thank you for being willing to serve in this way! May God lead you as you lead His little children into a loving friendship with Him,**_ 

**Nina and The General Conference Sabbath School and Personal Ministries Team**