---
title: Christ’s Ministry in the Heavenly Sanctuary
---

There is a sanctuary in heaven, the “true tabernacle which the Lord erected, and not man.” The ancient Hebrew sanctuary was merely a “copy and shadow” built after the heavenly “pattern.” Hebrews 8:1-5; Exodus 25:8, 9; Revelation 11:19.

Christ’s priestly work in heaven takes place in two distinct phases. In the first phase He ministers on our behalf by making available to believers the benefits of His atoning sacrifice offered once for all on the cross. At His ascension He was inaugurated as our great High Priest and began this intercessory ministry in the _holy place_ of heaven’s sanctuary. Hebrews 2:16-18; 4:14-16; 8:1-5.

In 1844, at the end of the prophetic period of 2300 days, Christ entered the second and last phase of His atoning ministry in the _most holy place_ of the heavenly sanctuary. In addition to His work of interces- sion, Christ is now engaged in a work of judgment, investigating the lives and characters of those who claim His name, and preparing them for His soon return. This work is symbolized by the cleansing of the ancient Hebrew sanctuary on the Day of Atonement. In the earthly service the sanctuary was cleansed with the blood of animal sacrifices, but “the heavenly things themselves” are purified with the perfect sacrifice of the blood of Jesus. Daniel 7:9-14, 21, 22; 8:13-27; 9:20-27; Ezekiel 4:6; Leviticus 16; Hebrews 9:11-28; 10:19-22.

Today God’s people are to proclaim that “the hour of His judgment” has begun. In this judgment, where Jesus is serving as our advocate in the heavenly courts, it is revealed to heavenly intelligences who _among the dead_ are asleep in Christ and worthy to have part in the first resurrection. It also shows who _among the living_ are truly abiding in Christ—keeping the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus—and are prepared for translation into His everlasting kingdom. That the judgment precedes the coming of Jesus is evident, since His reward is with Him when He comes. Ultimately this judgment vindicates the justice of God in saving those who believe in Jesus. When this work of judgment is completed, human probation will close and Christ will return. 1 Peter 4:17; 1 John 2:1-5; Revelation 14:6, 7, 12; 22:11, 12.

**My Commitment**: _I believe “the hour of His judgment has come.” I trust in Jesus, my sympathetic High Priest ministering in the heavenly sanctuary, to forgive and cleanse me of my sins through the power of His own blood and righteousness._