---
title: Two Are Better Than One
date: 05/10/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> (Eccl 4:9-12 NKJV) Two are better than one, Because they have a good reward for their labor. {10} For if they fall, one will lift up his companion. But woe to him who is alone when he falls, For he has no one to help him up. {11} Again, if two lie down together, they will keep warm; But how can one be warm alone? {12} Though one may be overpowered by another, two can withstand him. And a threefold cord is not quickly broken.

### Observation

Solomon writes of things he has evidently drawn from his personal experience in his search for true joy and happiness. After having experienced just about everything a man in his position can, he comes to realize that none of it brings him true, lasting happiness. It is then that he faces the reality that true, lasting happiness comes from loving and serving God. In today’s verses, Solomon speaks of the value of TWO. The Bible Knowledge Commentary explains: 

In contrast with the futility of selfish greed, Solomon commended sharing with others by citing several advantages that come from companionship: better profit (a good return) from one’s labor (v. 9), help in time of difficulty (v. 10), comfort in time of need (v. 11; one’s body heat can keep another person from freezing), protection in time of danger (v. 12). The last three of these are illustrated by examples from the benefits of two persons traveling together. In the case of the second and third of these (vv. 10b, 11b) Solomon lamented the perils of isolation (characteristic of selfish greed; cf. “a man all alone,” v. 8a).

Having set forth the advantages of joint effort and the mutual benefits of sharing one’s toil and its fruit with another, Solomon stated climactically that if two are better than one (v. 9) then three are even better (v. 12). One’s efforts and benefits should not be confined to merely two persons.

### Application

It’s interesting that Solomon had this insights which have now proved to be correct based on current marriage research. The advantages of marriage include, among others, financial, social, educational, health-wise. Financial, married people enjoy better finances because they have more stable jobs, and have more plans for their future therefore tend to save more, spend less, and invest more wisely. Social, the couples’ commitment to each other and to their relationship are stronger than among those who simply live together. When it comes to health, married man in particular are healthier than single men – maybe because of their spouse’ attention or because of their insistence they visit the doctor or eat better or exercise. Psychologically, single and divorced women tend to have higher levels of depression than married women.

So, if you’re married, count your many blessings. Some married people look at the other side of the marital fence, at single life, as one which would give them the happiness they desire, and when they jump to that side of the fence they find out that married life actually offered them a much better condition altogether. Stay in your marriage, fight for it, work to make it better; the benefits are plentiful and measurable.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, thank you for designing marriage for our benefit. Bless our unions that we may enjoy and appreciate those benefits and the spouse with whom we get to enjoy them.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._