---
title: A Good Soil Heart
---

### The Parable of the Farmer

Luke 8:4-15

_Prepared by: Shawna Trotman Henry, Children’s Ministries Director, Center for Youth Evangelism_

> <p>Key Theme</p>
> Jesus wants me to have a heart that responds to His Word.

> <p>Key Text</p>
> “And the seeds that fell on the good soil represent honest, good-hearted people who hear God’s word, cling to it, and patiently produce a huge harvest.” Luke 8:15 (NLT)

### Objectives:

- **Head**: Students will understand what it means to have a heart of “good soil”.
- **Heart**: Students will value the importance of a heart receptive to God’s Word.
- **Hand**: Students will demonstrate what it means to have a “good soil” heart.

### Supplies

- Beach ball (used previously in Good Samaritan Lesson)
- Smooth Rocks _(Choking hazard: not suitable for children under 3!)_
- Small Building blocks _(Choking hazard: not suitable for children under 3!)_
- Plant Pots
- Potting soil (hardware store of supermarket)-about 1 cup in sandwich bag
- Seeds for planting (hardware store or supermarket)- afew in really small storage bag
- Bible
- Songs for singing
- Laptop/device
- Plain copier paper to make plant label
- Glue

### Program Outline

#### Song Service

- Option A: Sing your favorite family songs
- Option B: Create a kids’ worship song video with people from your church
- Option C: Use [this playlist] (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYWQgzW0QFR2Lp03LNm0Hyw)

#### Opening Discussion

**Activity**: _Choking hazard: not suitable for children under 3!_

- Spread a light sheet on the floor. Have child/children lay on the light sheet on the floor
- Next, place several smooth rocks under the sheet and have child lay again on the rocks covered by the sheet.
- Repeat once more, this time using building blocks instead of the rocks.

**Discuss**: What did it feel like to lay only on the sheet on the hard floor? Was it comfortable? Do you think you could sleep all night like that? What about the rocks? And the building blocks?

In today’s lesson we will learn what happens if our hearts are thin, rocky, or thorny.

#### Key Text

> “And the seeds that fell on the good soil represent honest, good-hearted people who hear God’s word, cling to it, and patiently produce a huge harvest.” Luke 8:15 (NLT)

#### Key Theme

Jesus wants you to have a heart that responds to His Word.

#### Opening Song

Play/Sing: [“Change My Heart O God”](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IlSmG-_eJTU)

#### Prayer (Beach Ball Prayers)

Prior to Worship do the following:

- Inflate beach ball
- In each color write a category of prayer (e.g. pray for a friend, family member, teacher, country, give thanks, I’m sorry/confession, praise, personal want/need, etc)

**Activity**:

- Toss the pre-marked ball to a family member.
- Family member who catches the ball prays a prayer in the category where the right thumb lands.
- Then toss the ball to another family member
- Continue to pray in this fashion

#### Mission Spotlight

Read this week’s mission lesson [here](https://am.adventistmission.org/mq-children)

In addition, you may choose to do one of the activities listed on the mission site.

**or**

Watch this week’s mission video [here](https://m360.tv/stories)

**and**

Put aside your offering in a special container. You may want to decorate a special jar/cup/container for your mission offering.

#### Key Text

> “And the seeds that fell on the good soil represent honest, good-hearted people who hear God’s word, cling to it, and patiently produce a huge harvest.” Luke 8:15 (NLT)

#### Reading God’s Word

Luke 8:4-15

Read the story of the Parable of the Farmer in your favorite Bible Version.

After reading do the one of the following:

**Younger Children**

Watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IZEO_Ls2ERs)

**Older Children**

Dramatize the story

#### Interacting with God’s Word

Discuss any or all of the following questions:

- Who does the farmer represent?
- What is the seed?
- How can you apply this story to your life now?

#### Make it Stick Activity

- Cut paper into appropriate size for plant pot label.
- Write out memory verse on label.
- Glue label onto pot.
- Fill pot 2⁄3 way with potting soil.
- Plant seed.
- Water appropriately.

Talk about how important the condition of the soil is for the plant to grow. How can we help our hearts to be in “good soil” condition for God’s Word to grow?

#### Key Text

> “And the seeds that fell on the good soil represent honest, good-hearted people who hear God’s word, cling to it, and patiently produce a huge harvest.” Luke 8:15 (NLT)

#### Recap and Prayer

Jesus wants me to have a heart that responds to His Word.

Pray asking God to help us have hearts ready to respond to His Word.

#### Bonus challenge for older children/teens/youth

Create a jeopardy game on all the parables we have studied in this series (Good Samaritan, Two Builders, Lost Coin, and The Farmer). You can use [an online tool](https://jeopardylabs.com/)

Invite family members or church friends to play your game.