---
title: Give Glory to God
---

However common the idea of God being glorified in and by His people, the actual phrase, to “give glory” to God, is not common in the Bible. But its use is instructive.

A powerful example came from early Israelite history, when the children of Israel, after wandering for 40 years in the desert, had finally crossed over into the Promised Land, which was filled with dangerous and corrupt pagans who, among other things, would sacrifice their own children to their “gods,” such as Molech. Before the Hebrews had entered the land, they had been specifically warned against this horrific practice. “And you shall not let any of your descendants pass through the fire to Molech, nor shall you profane the name of your God: I am the Lord” (Leviticus 18:21). These Canaanites were bad folk who, it seemed, had long spurned God’s overtures to them (Genesis 15:16). Notice, too, the idea: by doing this evil practice they would “profane” the name of their God; this is the opposite of the idea that, when doing well, when obeying the Lord, when letting their “lights shine,” they would glorify that name instead.

The children of Israel had also been warned against the personal pillaging of these pagan nations. “And you, by all means abstain from the accursed things, lest you become accursed when you take of the accursed things, and make the camp of Israel a curse, and trouble it. But all the silver and gold, and vessels of bronze and iron, are consecrated to the Lord; they shall come into the treasury of the Lord” (Joshua 6:18, 19). These “accursed things,” herem (in Hebrew), carries the idea of the utter destruction of something in order to protect the people from spiritual contagion. Israel’s security in the land—as the chosen people, who had been called out to reveal the true God to a world suffused in idolatry, polytheism, and evil practices—depended upon their spiritual purity, and nothing endangered that purity more than being contaminated by their neighbors’ evil. A good portion of the Old Testament reveals how much the Hebrew people allowed themselves, unfortunately, to be overcome by the very things that God had warned them against.

Early on, in fact, just after they had entered the Promised land, calamity struck, and the Lord told Joshua why: “Get up! Why do you lie thus on your face? Israel has sinned, and they have also transgressed My covenant which I commanded them. For they have even taken some of the accursed things, and have both stolen and deceived; and they have also put it among their own stuff” (Joshua 7:10, 11). The idea of mixing pagan things with their own symbolized what ultimately would lead to the nation’s demise (a practice that, as we will see, has also plagued Christianity), and not long after they had entered the land, this contamination was already happening.

Out of greed, out of covetousness, and in flagrant disobedience to the commands of God, who did not want His people contaminated by herem, someone in the camp had pillaged for himself things from the recently destroyed pagan city of Jericho. Though having a chance to come clean and confess, only when he was confronted by the leader of the people at that time, Joshua (whom God showed who was guilty), did Achan admit his evil deed, saying: “Indeed I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel, and this is what I have done: When I saw among the spoils a beautiful Babylonian garment, two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold weighing fifty shekels, I coveted them and took them. And there they are, hidden in the earth in the midst of my tent, with the silver under it” (verses 20, 21).

When the situation was investigated and found true, Achan was immediately punished with death. “Why hast thou troubled us?” said Joshua. “The Lord shall trouble thee this day” (verse 25, KJV). Achan’s sin had been committed in open defiance of direct and solemn warnings, all accompanied by manifestations of God’s power—such as when, at the shouts of the people and the blowing of the trumpets, “the wall of Jericho fell down flat. Then the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took the city” (Joshua 6:20). The fact that God’s power alone had given the victory to Israel, that they had not taken Jericho by their own strength, gave solemn weight to the divine prohibition of taking the spoils for themselves.

However, when Joshua first confronted Achan, he said, “My son, I beg you, give glory to the Lord God of Israel, and make confession to Him, and tell me now what you have done; do not hide it from me”(Joshua 7:19). Give glory to God, just like the phrase in Revelation 14:7. In the context of judgment, of being called to admit his guilt, Achan is told to give glory to God. What does that mean? It’s not to give glory as singing praises to Him. Instead, it’s to admit that God is just in not only pointing out Achan’s overt act of greed and selfishness and defiance, but also in the penalty that will come. Achan deserved the punishment that he is about to face, and he is expected to recognize this fact. In short, to give glory to God is to admit, in the context of judgment, that God’s judgment is just and fair.

Considering the great controversy, and God’s intention to deal with sin and rebellion and evil in a manner harmonious with the principles of love, and not force—how important not only that God’s judgment be just but that others, including “the principalities and powers in heavenly places” (Ephesians 3:10), acknowledge that justice. In fact, Revelation 19:1, 2 depicts some of these “principalities and powers” in heavenly places shouting: “Alleluia! Salvation and glory and honor and power belong to the Lord our God! For true and righteous are His judgments.”

Which is why this specific phrase, to “give glory” to God, appears in other settings of divine judgment as well (1 Samuel 6:5; Jeremiah 13:15, 16; Malachi 2:2). But, no question, the most dramatic, consequential, and powerful example occurs in the heart of the first angel’s message itself: “Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come.” Why “fear God”? Why “give glory to Him”? Because the hour, the time, of His judgment, God’s judgment, has come.

Judgment? God’s judgment? An all-knowing, all-seeing God who knows your every thought, your every secret deed, your everything including the things that you have long ago forgotten? That judgment?

What are your odds?