---
title: Come
subtitle: Week 13
---

Pray together. Then think back over this past quarter and all you’ve explored about how to grow closer in your relationship with God.

1. ^[Reality Check.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) The antidote to a lukewarm relationship with God—an invitation to abide.

2. ^[Knowing God.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) A clear picture of God’s character precedes a healthy relationship with Him.
3. ^[Pride and Humility.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Pride is one of the greatest inhibitors to growing a relationship with God.
4. ^[The Bible.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) God speaks to us clearly through His living Word, the Bible.
5. ^[How to Study the Bible.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Ways to study the Bible.
6. ^[Prayer.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Why prayer is important in growing a friendship with Jesus.
7. ^[Faith.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) God gives us faith. Even with just a small amount, we can grow closer to Jesus.
8. ^[Sin and the Law.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Sin works to destroy our relationship with God. God’s law reflects what’s important to Him and protects this most important relationship.
9. ^[Repentance and Forgiveness.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) God loves to forgive us when we come to Him with a repentant heart.
10. ^[Setbacks.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) When we experience hard times, God is still there. It’s through these times we can grow closer to Him.
11. ^[Share Him.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) When we know Jesus, we can’t help but share Him with others.
12. ^[Eternity.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) God promises to return to take us to be with Him forever. It’s going to be more amazing than we can imagine.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ Of these topics, which ones have challenged you?
+ Which topics do you want to focus on more?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect

**Read** Matthew 11:28-30; Isaiah 55:1-3; and John 6:44. What is the common theme in these verses?

The Holy Spirit is wanting to draw you to Jesus. Jesus invites you to come; to abide in Him, today and every day, until He comes. When you respond and come, when your heart is soft and your mind surrendered, you will feel peace, because you know that He will raise you up on the last day of this earth. Jesus said, “Whoever comes to Me, I will never cast out” (John 6:37).

Cling to His promises, trust His Word, and turn your face to Him.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray Together]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Thank God for how He has drawn close to you this quarter. Praise Him for\
who He is. Thank Him for His patience with you and for His forgiveness\
and grace. Ask Him to keep you connected to Him. Pray for your babies—\
that you will gently teach them to know Him as He really is.\
\
May you be “confident of this very thing, that He who has begun a good\
work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ”\
(Philippians 1:6).\
\
God initiated the relationship He has with you, and He will complete it.