---
title: Finding Bible Studies
---

### Personal Contacts are the Best

The Holy Spirit is placing a desire for truth in hearts all around you.

- Maintain a constant connection with Him.
- Be friendly.
- Pray every day, “Who today, Lord?”

Friendship and prayer brought 25 Bible studies a week to a 75 year old lady living in a difficult country and sparsely populated area.

Do as Jesus did: “He reached the hearts of the people by going among them as one who desired their good. . . . He met them at their daily vocations, and manifested an interest in their secular affairs.”<sup>7</sup>

“Go to your neighbors one by one, and come close to them till their hearts are warmed by your unselfish interest and love. Sympathize with them, pray for them, watch for opportunities to do them good, and as you can, gather a few together and open the word of God to their darkened minds.”<sup>8</sup>

Follow this advice and when among your neighbors, friends, work associates, family members, and casual contacts, watch and pray for opportunities and words to share how the study guides have helped you to find answers.

1. You might say, “They make the Bible come alive.
2. It is really fascinating to see how they lead you to texts on the major subjects of the Bible. They make it so interesting.
3. Hundreds are enjoying them and I know you will love them, too.”
4. (You might also include: “I would like your opinion on them,”
5. or “In view of [name current tragic event/s] we have a gift for you that we found very helpful.”)

Introduce the guides, show how to begin and arrange a time to study together. (The canvass below will assist you in presenting them.)

The Holy Spirit is able to use your casual conversation to awaken a desire. He will guide you to the best interests.

### Prospects for Bible Studies

Prospects for Bible studies include the following, which should be part of your church’s interest list. To begin studies, you may use the basic approach, used with the personal contacts above, with many of these. With others (in parentheses) you will find some brief approaches that may also be helpful to use with the canvass below in introducing the guides.

- Evangelistic meeting interests.
- Interests developed through cooking schools and other special church programs and events.
- Close relatives of new and old members.
- Graduates of Bible Correspondence Schools. (Many like to see the answers in the Bible itself.)
- Literature Evangelist interests. (Take the print-out. Ask, “How have you enjoyed the [name them] books? Many like to see the answers in the Bible itself. You paid for those books. This is a free offer to you.”)
- Branch Sabbath School interests.
- Interests of hospital or medical outreach.
- Media and publication interests. (Take the print-out, showing what they ordered, and say, “We are associated with [name the program or publication]. We understand you have received [name them]. Have you enjoyed it? Have you taken advantage of our Free Bible study offer?”)
- Children of church members.
- Sabbath school members who are not church members.
- Community service beneficiaries. (Say, “How you are doing? We helped you physically, and now we would like to help you spiritually.”)
- Missing members. (Consider why they are missing. Most often they are missing because of hurt feelings. They need friends and a fresh view of Jesus and His message. It may take several visits to reestablish friendship. Listen, love, care, apologize in behalf of the church, never argue. Offer study guides when they indicate their interest and need.)

### Tips for Finding Bible Studies

- Do door to door visitation in your neighborhood using just the guides or a community survey (see Appendix B) and the guides. (With the survey, at the end, say, “Thank you for taking the time to give your opinion. We have something free for you that we believe you will thoroughly enjoy.” If you sense that they feel their need as you asked the question, carefully make it clear that they will find answers in the guides.)
- Distribute a series or a single tract containing an enrollment card. (With this one and with all request card and ad responses listed below, basically, make a brief friendly visit, hold up the card or ad and say, “We came in answer to your request. You made a very wise choice. Hundreds are enjoying and benefiting from these simple guides which answer life’s greatest questions, and are made for busy people.” Again, use the canvass below to introduce the guides and the plan.)
- Place enrollment cards in the doors.
- Mass mail enrollment cards to postal areas.
- Include enrollment cards with your letters, payments and greeting cards.
- Encourage all church members to carry enrollment cards at all times.
- Place “Free Take One” enrollment card holders in strategic locations in your community and keep them filled.
- Loan books containing enrollment cards.
- Use a survey or response sheet at all church special events, programs, and fair booths, etc., that offers to the guests various programs including personal Bible studies.
- Place ads in newspapers, newsletters, or local magazines.
- Place ads on bulletin boards in stores, Laundromats, and other public places.
- Use TV/radio advertising spots.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>7</sup> The Desire of Ages, p. 151.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>8</sup> Review and Herald, March 13, 1888.