---
title: God Has Our Interests At Heart
date: 09/08/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “‘For I know the plans I have for you,’ declares the Lord, ‘plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future.’”

–Jeremiah 29:11, NIV

Pastor Shangala, the Stewardship Director for the Southern Zambia Union Conference, recounts a story of a family’s response to his teachings on tithing. The family, filled with excitement, made a decision to give tithe and offerings to the Lord from their cattle. The day came for the counting of the tithe animals. Almost everyone from the community came to witness how the tithing of animals was done.

An interesting incident happened on this occasion. A few days earlier, the couple had purchased two Brahman bulls. They were so big that they became tourist attractions to the community. When the counting started, the family became worried that their cherished bulls might end up as tithe.

As they feared, the two bulls followed each other to the counting for tithe and offerings. The family realized that their bulls might be designated as tithe and offerings; anxiously, the couple quickly went behind the crowd to avoid witnessing the outcome. But as the bulls were about to be counted as tithe and offerings, they went back into the kraal due to the noise the young bulls were making. This allowed other bulls to pass as tithe and offerings. The couple recognized this as a sign that God had their interests at heart.

### Appeal

As we return tithe and give Promise offerings, let us not fear that we shall suffer loss because God has our interests at heart.