---
title: Parable of an Heir
date: 07/07/2025
---

_Pat B. Mutch_

> <p></p>
> I have come that men may have life, and may have it in all its fullness. John 10:10, NEB.

Once upon a time there lived a girl named Juliana. Born "with a silver spoon in her mouth," she possessed a wealth of assets for a long and enjoyable life. Her parents raised her carefully, conserving her fortune until she was old enough to handle her own wealth wisely and responsibly.

When Juliana came of age, she began to manage her inheritance herself. Soon she noticed that many people sought her company, hoping she would invest her time and wealth in their enterprises. At first all the choices she could make intrigued her. But after a while she began to notice that her friends seemed to fall into three categories.

Some were very attractive, fun to be around, and flattering. They assured her that their projects would be a "sure bonanza." But every time she gave them money, it vanished. Worse, often she had to spend more money to pay off the legal fees and other costs resulting from their projects. Investing in them appeared to be a consistently losing proposition in spite of the enthusiastic promises. She wondered, Could these really be my friends?

Another group also sought for her attention, but not in flashy ways. She noticed the money she lent them didn't seem to make large profits, but her investments were always repaid. She considered them reliable and steady friends, though not very glamorous nor paying high returns.

The members of the third group were reserved, almost difficult to develop friendship with. However, she found they not only repaid whatever she invested in them, but also yielded a high rate of financial return. Such friends were highly profitable people to know.

The key to the parable? "Health is wealth."

Like Juliana, we must choose how to use our health capital. Some so-called friends—alcohol, tobacco, caffeine, and other drugs—seem fun to be around, but always deplete our health balance. Other friends, such as sleep, eating nourishing foods, drinking pure water, and playfulness, maintain our wealth. And a few consistent winners require effort to make our friends: exercise, eating prudently, meditation, serving others, praising God.

> <callout></callout>
> Lord, thank You for the treasure of health. Help me to invest it wisely.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._