---
title: Christian Behavior
---

We are called to be a godly people who think, feel, and act in har- mony with the principles of heaven, renouncing the sinful ways of the world. We can cooperate with the Holy Spirit, as He works to re-create in us the character of Jesus, by involving ourselves only in those things that will produce Christlike purity, health, and joy in our lives. Romans 12:1, 2; 1 John 2:6; Ephesians 5:1-21; Philippians 4:8; 2 Corinthians 10:5; 6:14-7:1; 3 John 2.

Because our bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit, we are to care for them intelligently. Along with adequate exercise and rest, we are to adopt the most healthful diet possible and abstain from the unclean meats identified in the Scriptures. The distinction between clean and unclean meats has existed since the time of the flood—long before the birth of the Jewish nation. 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20; 10:31; Genesis 1:29; 7:1, 2; Leviticus 11; 20:25, 26; Deuteronomy 14:3-21.

Alcohol, tobacco, caffeinated beverages, and other recreational drugs and narcotics are both addictive and harmful to our bodies. Christians should abstain from anything mind-altering or addictive, which has not been prescribed by a doctor. God wants our minds to be clear so that we are more attentive to the voice of conscience and stronger to resist temptation. 1 Corinthians 3:16, 17; 9:25-27; Proverbs 20:1; 23:29-35; 31:4, 5; for a note on wine in the Bible, see the third point under the doctrinal topic “The Lord’s Supper.”

**My Commitment**: _By the grace of God I will care for my physical health. This includes abstaining from unclean meats and from the recreational use of addictive, mind-altering substances such as alcohol, tobacco, and other habit-forming drugs._

Our amusement and entertainment should meet the highest stan- dards of Christian taste and beauty. We become like that which we behold. Most entertainment today (television, movies, music, video games, Internet, etc.) does not strengthen the spiritual nature, but the carnal. An entertainment-saturated life can steal our affections Bible Doctrines from God and blunt our interest in spiritual things. Philippians 4:8; 2 Corinthians 3:18; Romans 8:5-8; 13:14; Colossians 3:1, 2.

Inasmuch as maintaining moral purity requires us to guard every avenue to our hearts and minds, Christians should refrain from viewing sexual or pornographic material. Job 31:1; Proverbs 4:23; 5:3-21; Matthew 5:28; 1 Thessalonians 4:3-7; 2 Timothy 2:22; 1 Peter 2:11.

**My Commitment**: _By the grace of God I will avoid reading, watching, participating in, or listening to sinful things that the Bible condemns. I will strive to live a life of moral purity in my thoughts and actions._

As Jesus was humble in appearance, so our dress is to be simple, modest, and neat. We should avoid dressing in ways that could prove to be a stumbling block to others. Isaiah 53:2; Matthew 5:28; Romans 14:13.

Peter and Paul both teach that to dress modestly includes not wearing jewelry or extravagant clothing. In harmony with this instruction, Revelation depicts the pure woman (the faithful church) as wearing no jewelry or extravagant clothing, while the harlot woman (the unfaithful church) is wearing both. Old Testament examples show God’s people taking off their jewelry when consecrating their lives to God. 1 Timothy 2:9, 10; 1 Peter 3:3, 4; Revelation 12:1; 17:4; Genesis 35:4; Exodus 33:6.

Many people, based on the Bible’s teachings concerning jewelry, choose not to wear wedding rings. If one chooses to wear a wedding ring, viewing it as merely functional and not as an ornament, it follows that such a ring would be a simple band.

**My Commitment**: _By the grace of God I choose to dress modestly, not with provocative or extravagant clothing, or with jewelry (if wearing functional items, they will be simple and modest)._