---
title: Prove God
date: 10/05/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “‘Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in My house, and try Me now in this,’ says the Lord of hosts, “If I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you such blessing that there will not be room enough to receiveit.’” –Malachi 3:10

In 2022, Doreen (not her real name) lived with her husband and their little daughter in Livingstone, the tourist capital of Zambia. Every year Livingstone receives thousands of tourists from all over the world who come to see the majestic Victoria Falls.

One day Doreen and her husband discussed the need to increase the amount they gave as offerings. After a lengthy discussion, they settled on giving 10% as offerings in addition to tithe. This was a bold decision. Already things were not alright as they were surviving only on one salary—her husband’s as a teacher. Nevertheless, they decided to take that leap of faith.

The new government that was just voted in advertised jobs for teachers. Doreen, a trained teacher but unemployed for over two years, quickly submitted her application and waited for the outcome. After what seemed to be a year of waiting, an announcement was made for those who applied to check for their names in the national newspapers. To their amazement, Doreen was picked. When others in her church who also applied but were not picked heard that she was picked, they asked her what she had done or if she had some connections which led her to be picked. She assured them that she did nothing and had no connection with anybody in the government.

Doreen and her husband believe that God abundantly rewarded their leap of faith.

### Appeal

I challenge you to take a leap of faith and prove God. God is faithful. Give tithe and the best as percentage-based offerings, and see if He will not fulfill His promise as given in Malachi 3:10.