---
title: Home A Place Of Love
---

> <p></p>
> “So Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed only a few days to him because of the love he had for her” (Gen. 29:20, NKJV).

Have you noticed that when two or three airplanes accidents happen in a row, or there is some violent abduction, a wave of requests for more safety is generated by the press? Politicians get excited and the government tries to improve security rules. When you look at all the broken homes in our world, all the unhappy children, and all the wounded hearts with irreparable sorrows, do you not think we need better “safety rules” for our homes and churches?

A man once visited a counselor to discuss the best things he could do for his children. He hoped to receive advice about education—which school they should attend, what cultural advantages he should provide them. However, the counselor’s response surprised him. He said, “The best thing a father can do for his children is to love their mother. The child who lives in a home where the father truly loves his wife is a blessed child, much more than the one whose father is willing to write big checks.”

The path that leads from a happy marriage before a pastor or judge to the divorce court is one of the most tragic roads a human being could travel.

“The family tie is the closest, the most tender and sacred, of any on earth. It was designed to be a blessing to mankind. And it is a blessing wherever the marriage covenant is entered into intelligently, in the fear of God, and with due consideration for its responsibilities” (Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pp. 356, 357).

Let us make our household a place of love and peace. Let us share love instead of simply demand love from others. Then we would feel how good it is to be in a place of happiness.

_—Daily Meditations, p. 346_