---
title: The Need for the Holy Spirit
---

Tremendous success is promised as we cooperate with the Holy Spirit. Above all methodology His continual presence, wisdom, guidance, power, and persuasiveness are essential. “Thousands in the eleventh hour will see and acknowledge the truth. . . . These conversions to truth will be made with a rapidity that will surprise the church, and God’s name alone will be glorified.”<sup>11</sup> “It is the absence of the Spirit that makes the gospel ministry so powerless. Learning, talents, eloquence, every natural or acquired endowment, may be possessed; but without the presence of the Spirit of God, no heart will be touched, no sinner be won to Christ. On the other hand, if they are connected with Christ, if the gifts of the Spirit are theirs, the poorest and most ignorant of His disciples will have a power that will tell upon hearts. God makes them the channel for the outworking of the highest influence in the universe.”<sup>12</sup>

There must be a balance, however. Relying on the Holy Spirit does not negate human efforts and methods in reaching the heart: “When divine power is combined with human effort, the work will spread like fire in the stubble.”<sup>13</sup> “The agency of the Spirit of God does not remove from us the necessity of exercising our faculties and talents.”<sup>14</sup> “What human power can do divine power is not summoned to do. God does not dispense with man’s aid. He strengthens him, co-operating with him as he uses the powers and capabilities given him.”<sup>15</sup> “When in our work for God right methods are energetically followed, a harvest of souls will be gathered.”<sup>16</sup>

#### Endnotes:

<sup>11</sup> Selected Messages, book 2, p. 16.

<sup>12</sup> Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 328.

<sup>13</sup> Selected Messages, book 1, p. 118.

<sup>14</sup> Counsels to Parents, Teachers and Students, p. 361. 15 The Desire of Ages, p. 535.

<sup>16</sup> Evangelism, p. 330.