---
title: Jealousy Can Destroy Your Health
date: 10/04/2025
---

_Harold Shryock_

> <p></p>
> Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit, but in humility consider others better than yourselves. Each of you should look not only to your own interests, but also to the interests of others. Phil. 2:3, 4, NIV.

Throughout earth's history jealousy has been one of the devil's most effective means of producing trouble. At the time of the wilderness wandering of the Israelites, Miriam and Aaron became jealous of their brother Moses, and the Lord sternly rebuked them, striking Miriam with leprosy for seven days (Num. 12:1-14).

Solomon wrote, "Anger is cruel and fury is overwhelming, but who can stand before jealousy?" (Prov. 27:4, NIV).

Jesus found it necessary to reprimand His disciples because they jealously wanted to be the greatest (see Mark 9:33-35).

The apostle Paul lists jealousy among the "acts of the sinful nature" in Galatians 5:19, 20.

Jealousy affects one's emotions. The emotions, through the autonomic nervous system, influence the functions of the body's various organs. In the case of jealousy, one's intellect loses control of the emotions, thus allowing illness to develop.

In one of the classics of medical literature, Dr. Edward Weiss tells about a young woman who complained of persistent headaches. Dr. Weiss performed a thorough physical examination and arranged for a series of laboratory tests, but found no explanation. Meanwhile other symptoms developed, including intestinal disorders. The patient finally became bedridden. Discouraged because of lack of improvement, she discharged Dr. Weiss and called in the old family doctor who had known her from childhood. In casual conversation he discovered that her brother had married and that she was overwhelmed with jealousy toward the woman. Once she was convinced that her emotional upheaval had caused her symptoms, her symptoms lessened and she eventually recovered.

Here are two important points that Ellen White makes: First, "the condition of the mind affects the health to a far greater degree than many realize" (The Ministry of Healing, p. 241). And second, "if the mind is free and happy under a consciousness of rightdoing and a sense of satisfaction in causing happiness to others, it will create a cheerfulness that will react upon the whole system, causing a freer circulation of the blood and a toning up of the entire body" (Medical Ministry, p. 105).

> <callout></callout>
> Clean up your emotional garbage—jealousy, envy, anger—and you'll feel better.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._