---
title: By Beholding
subtitle: Chapter 5
---

The power of the devotional life is that we become like Jesus as we spend time with Jesus. “We all, with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of the Lord” (2 Corinthians 3:18). We become like that which we behold. If we behold the glory of the Lord—His character—we will be “transformed into the same image.”

To behold, however, requires more than a passing glance. Hurried prayers and a rushed reading of the Bible, performed merely as a task on our to-do list, will fall short of producing the transformation that comes by beholding. The purpose of our devotional life is not merely to satisfy a requirement of God, or to learn interesting stories in the Bible. Rather, the purpose is to change our hearts and lives so that our character reflects the character of Jesus. We need more than information; we need transformation!

### The Influence of a Christlike Character

A Christlike character will give power to the message we preach. “If we would . . . be kind and courteous and tenderhearted and pitiful, there would be one hundred conversions to the truth where now there is only one” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, p. 189). Far too many Christians are actually a hindrance to the gospel, because while they profess to believe in Jesus, they act nothing like Him. Rather than being kind and courteous, they are cold, indifferent, or argumentative. Such behavior will repel others rather than attract. “No one has ever been reclaimed from a wrong position by censure and reproach; but many have thus been driven from Christ and led to seal their hearts against conviction” (Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, p. 129).

How much better to display a Christlike character! Sympathy, humility, and love should be evident in all our interactions with others. We are told that “Jesus did not suppress one word of truth, but He uttered it always in love. He exercised the greatest tact and thoughtful, kind attention . . . with the people. He was never rude, never needlessly spoke a severe word, never gave needless pain to a sensitive soul” (Steps to Christ, p. 12).

While we need kindness, gentleness, and patience, we must also not neglect the active virtues of courage, energy, and perseverance. Jesus was never idle in the work of salvation. Driven by love, He was active and fervent. He lived a life of strict integrity, purity, and faithfulness to the truth. While He had the gentleness of a lamb, He also had the moral courage of a lion. He did not shrink from speaking truth even when it was unpopular, but “He uttered it always in love.”

If the truth we profess does not make us like Jesus, it will lose its appeal, no matter how logical it may be. On the other hand, “the revelation of Christ in your own character will have a transforming power upon all with whom you come in contact” (Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, p. 129).

### Strength for the Struggle

The goal of character transformation can be accomplished only “by the Spirit of the Lord” (2 Corinthians 3:18). Herein lies the importance of the devotional life. Communion with God brings the Holy Spirit into our experience and gives us power to resist the temptations of the enemy. “When the enemy comes in like a flood, the Spirit of the Lord will lift up a standard against him” (Isaiah 59:19). Oh, how much we need the Spirit of God! Only then will the fruit of the Spirit—“love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control” (Galatians 5:22, 23)—be seen in our lives and characters.

While the Holy Spirit will work in us “both to will and to do for His good pleasure” (Philippians 2:13), we must understand that transformation of character is not an effortless experience. “A noble, all-round character is not inherited. It does not come to us by accident. . . . It is formed by hard, stern battles with self” (Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 331). “Not even God can make our characters noble or our lives useful, unless we become coworkers with Him. Those who decline the struggle lose the strength and joy of victory” (The Ministry of Healing, p. 487). With the aid of the Holy Spirit we can find victory in the battle with self; but we must not decline the struggle.

### Thoughts and Feelings

Character is not merely defined by our behavior, but “the thoughts and feelings combined make up the moral character” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 310). In order for our lives to be truly pleasing to God, we must seek purity of thought as well as action. As David wrote: “You desire truth in the inward parts” (Psalm 51:6). True character development will involve Spirit-led efforts to redirect our thoughts before they go down forbidden paths. “Your imagination was not given you to be allowed to run riot and have its own way without any effort at restraint or discipline” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 310).

Just because we do not act upon wrong thoughts does not make them acceptable to God. Jesus taught that to be angry with our brother can put us in danger of judgment (see Matthew 5:22). And to look “at a woman to lust after her” (Matthew 5:28) is adultery of the heart. If we indulge in these or other sinful thoughts, they will eventually destroy us. For this reason Jesus makes this seemingly radical statement: “If your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you; for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish, than for your whole body to be cast into hell” (Matthew 5:29).

While we are not to take these words of Jesus literally, they do advocate going to great lengths to guard against sinful tendencies. If department store flyers fill your thoughts with covetousness, throw them away. If using social media makes you jealous or envious of the lives of others, delete your account. If TV or the Internet leads you to dabble in immoral content, cancel your service. But remember that to starve the sinful nature is only half the battle. We must also feed the spiritual nature by daily communion with God in order to find victory over sinful thoughts. It is by beholding that we become changed. Therefore, the apostle Paul counsels, “Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth” (Colossians 3:2). “For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit” (Romans 8:5).

### Practical Application

In your devotional time this week, be honest with God. Say with the psalmist, “Search me, O God, and know my heart; try me, and know my anxieties; and see if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting” (Psalm 139:23, 24). Surrender anything that would hinder your relationship with the Lord. “In giving ourselves to God, we must necessarily give up all that would separate us from Him” (Steps to Christ, p. 44).

As you pray and study each day, respond to the convictions of the Holy Spirit. “Be doers of the word, and not hearers only” (James 1:22). If you read His promises to forgive you, accept that forgiveness and respond by forgiving others. If you read of His kindness and compassion, respond by humbly changing your own attitude and actions. If you read that covetousness is idolatry, get rid of any idol that is robbing God of your affections. Every day in your time with God, the Holy Spirit will show you ways to better reflect the life and character of Jesus. Follow wherever He leads.

Remember, however, that the work of character development, also termed sanctification, “is not the work of a moment, an hour, a day, but of a lifetime” (The Acts of the Apostles, p. 560). Do not be discouraged if you continue to see imperfections in your character. This is actually evidence that the Spirit is working in your life. “The closer you come to Jesus, the more faulty you will appear in your own eyes. . . . This is evidence that Satan’s delusions have lost their power; that the vivifying influence of the Spirit of God is arousing you” (Steps to Christ, p. 64).

To know Jesus and to develop a Christlike character is not only the goal of discipleship, but of our preparation for heaven; and the only way to become like Jesus is to spend time with Jesus. By beholding His glory, we are changed “from glory to glory”—from one degree of Christlike character development to the next. One day we will reflect Him fully. “Beloved, now we are children of God; and it has not yet been revealed what we shall be, but we know that when He is revealed, we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is” (1 John 3:2). What a wonderful promise!