---
title: Finding Peace as a Single Person
subtitle: Chapter 9
---

We recently celebrated thirty-four years of marriage. For some of you, this is longer than you have been alive. However, to us, it seems like it was just yesterday that we were exchanging marriage vows on a lovely summer afternoon in the northeastern part of the United States of America.

As we stood before the minister so long ago, promising to love each other “till death do us part,” we had no idea it would be so challenging to keep those vows unbroken. The words were quite easy to say, especially in that atmosphere of ecstasy and anticipation. On the other hand, nothing could have prepared us for the very satisfying life we have experienced as husband and wife, despite having to come to grips with the fact that there are no perfect marriages because there are no perfect people.

Many single adults wish they could be married and believe it would be easier to manage and live responsible lives if this was their reality. Is this really true? Do married people have an advantage in the sex-crazed world that we inhabit? Or are married people also vulnerable as they have to deal with the pressures of life with its deadlines and demands to succeed?

The truth is, while getting married is relatively easy, staying married is much more difficult. So, what is a single person to do until he or she finds the right person to marry, given the very strong sexual urges and ever-present sexual messages that are a reality in postmodern life today?

As we explore this very important topic, it is essential to recognize that sexuality was God’s idea, and without a doubt, it is very good. However, everything God has created for your good, the evil one has tried to destroy. Like Eve’s experience with the serpent in the Garden of Eden, the evil one continues to present attractive alternatives to God’s life-enhancing instructions, hoping you will fall for his lies, leading to grief and suffering in the end.

It was at the very beginning that God declared in Genesis 2:24, 25: “Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed” (ESV). According to the Bible, there is a specific context for sexual expression—after a person leaves father and mother and commits to their spouse. This is the setting in which there is no shame for sexual activity, since it is in this context that a person has taken a pledge of lifelong commitment to another human being and is now ready to enjoy the privileges that come with such a devotion.

Just in case you are uncertain about what God is saying, He states, “For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you abstain from sexual immorality; that each of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God” (1 Thessalonians 4:3–5, ESV). This passage makes very clear that if you claim to be a believer in God, you are in control of your body and your passions so that you can live a life of moral integrity and honor for God.

The Bible continues to express the appropriate context for sexual activity by stating in 1 Corinthians 7:1, 2: “ ‘It is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman.’ But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband.” To be sure, this inspired counsel is not simply for saints in heaven, but it is established in the reality of life on earth. The Bible writer accepts that because humans are hardwired by God to have sexual intercourse, they will have a deep desire to do so. However, this reality does not give humans who want to live upstanding moral lives—or be obedient to God—license to do away with the principles established by God in the beginning. Instead, the limitations are clear; that for sexual expression to take place, it must take place between a man and his wife, or a woman and her husband. Please also don’t miss the message that if you are male, you are married to a woman, and if you are a woman, you are married to a man.

Walter Trobisch, a German writer on marriage and family issues, once said, “Sex is no test of love, for it is precisely the very thing one wants to test that is destroyed by the testing.”<sup>1</sup> This statement is the very opposite to the practices of our day, in which the individual is the highest value in society. This means that whatever a person feels like doing, he or she has the right to do, as long as no one is getting hurt in the process. Of course, such a narcissistic and hedonistic person couldn’t care less about who is hurt in the process. This type of person is only interested in what they can get rather than what they can give. True love always asks the question, What can I give? rather than What can I get? This concept is documented in the Bible, in John 3:16, which states: “For God so loved the world that He gave . . .” (emphasis added).

Taking your chances with the ethics of the God who created you to live a moral and responsible life is without a doubt the better of the two options. In Jeremiah 29:11, God says: “For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope” (ESV). This is a good place to begin when it comes to our sexual ethics of finding peace as a single person.

With regard to a good place to begin, Stephen R. Covey, in his book, The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Families, identifies as habit no. 2, begin with the end in mind. This habit is compared to the flight of an airplane. When airplanes travel from one place to another the pilots have to file a flight plan with a clear destination in mind. This is extremely important, because regularly there are storms that develop during the journey, forcing the pilot to steer the plane over or around the storm. However, because a flight plan was filed with a clear destination in mind, as long as the pilot follows the flight plan, more than likely the plane will land at that final destination close to the time that was planned.

The same is true with your life. You must decide very early in your journey what is the clear destination you want for yourself and for your relationships. Once you have agreed on what kind of life you want to live, you will need to create a mission statement that will keep you focused on the final destination you have chosen for yourself. Your flight plan is like your values. You must decide what values you will embrace as part of your flight and what values you will keep out of your flight plan so that you can arrive safely at the destination you have in mind for your life.

Feelings and urges will undoubtedly develop during your journey, just as storms present themselves in a literal plane flight. However, if the flight plan of your life is filled with the values found in the Bible as your moral compass, you will be more likely to arrive at the destination you chose for yourself at the beginning of your journey.

One of the pitfalls that leads to sexual immorality is a person’s thought life. What a person thinks has much to do with what he or she looks at and listens to. Never before in the history of humankind has exposure to looking at and listening to immoral content multiplied as is being experienced today. The internet has made life easier in so many ways for people around the world but at the same time has made being a moral person much more difficult than ever before. With computers, tablets, and smartphones accessible to so many, remaining a morally upright person is becoming more challenging to all. It is also important to accept that single people don’t have a corner on this kind of temptation that is an equal opportunity reality to every human being—married or single. It is the reason the Bible says in Proverbs 4:23, “Above all else, guard your heart, for everything you do flows from it” (NIV).

So, contrary to the established thinking in today’s societies, that people cannot do anything about training their sexual drive, it is well documented among scientists that the brain is the most important sex organ humans have. So, human sexuality is worlds apart from “the birds and the bees.” The fact is that the sexual drive in humans operates out of the prefrontal cortex of the brain—that part of the brain where all learning takes place and that is the center of judgment. Because God made humans with a brain, they are responsible for their sexuality and the choices they make about it each day. Human beings have the power to make choices, even when their biochemistry battles their brain.

People get to use their highly developed brains to decide how, when, where, and whether they will give expression to their sexual urges. This reality is what separates humans from animals.

Another lie being perpetrated in society today is that having sex will bolster self-image by making you more desirable or more confident. Women, especially, want to be desirable and often use sex as a barometer of worthiness and as a means to relational connectedness. Men, on the other hand, use sex to make themselves feel more confident and capable; it is really about power and performance, competition and achievement, and for many it is all a numbers game to determine how many conquests they have enjoyed.

Unfortunately, premarital and/or extramarital sex will never validate you or your relationship. If you are a woman, it won’t make you more desirable. If you are a man, it won’t get rid of your insecurity; in fact, clandestine sex is more likely to have the opposite effect on you. It will end up making you feel more self-denigrated, desperate, alone, and insecure.

So, what is a sexual being to do? There is a need to be aware of the choices you have and handle them instead of allowing them to handle you. Here are a number of those choices now: the “it just happened” choice; the “if we’re in love it can’t be wrong” choice; the “sex brings us closer together” choice; the “I’m not sexual until I’m married” choice; and the “let’s set boundaries” choice. Married or single, all these choices are bogus except for the last choice. Unless you set healthy boundaries ahead of time, whether married or single, you will be in trouble; so, set those healthy boundaries now, before the temptation presents itself.

To find peace as a single person, it is important that you identify your values early, choose to be directed by them, and trust God for the moral strength to live by them each day.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Walter Trobisch, I Married You (New York: Harper and Row, 1971), 75–77.