---
title: The Day Heaven Cheered
date: 23/08/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “And He said, ‘Do not lay your hand on the lad, or do anything to him; for now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from Me.’” –Genesis 22:12

In our previous offertory reading, we discussed how obedience to God’s directives is a trait of those who fear God. Today, we are considering the second lesson from Genesis 22:12. Abraham did not withhold his son from God. From Abraham’s example, we learn that those who fear God will not withhold anything back from Him. They won’t only give when it pleases them; they’ll count nothing too dear, too costly, or too precious to give to God.

When Abraham successfully passed the test by yielding his son as an offering, it didn’t go unnoticed by God and all of heaven. Ellen G. White eloquently describes this moment: “All heaven beheld with wonder and admiration Abraham’s unfaltering obedience. All heaven applauded his fidelity” (Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 155).

Heaven erupted in celebration as Abraham demonstrated his obedience. In modern terms, we might say that heaven cheered and gave father Abraham a standing ovation. It was a moment of jubilation as Abraham presented his offering of Isaac.

The devil may try to discourage us from obeying God and from giving faithfully and generously. However, it’s crucial to remember that both God and all of heaven are watching our choices—whether we will listen to God’s voice or to the devil. When we listen to the devil, heaven is sad. Yet, like Abraham, when we obey God and withhold nothing back from Him, heaven resounds with joy as it cheers us on.

### Appeal

My prayer is that as we give tithe and offerings, our actions will bring joy to heaven as we obediently give our best to God.