---
title: "Seven Prayer Requests: That They Will Express Thanks for Having Been Redeemed"
date: 27/06/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> Giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in the light. 13 He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, 14 in whom we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of sins. Colossians 1:12-14

### Observation

Thankfulness, a fourth result of following God’s will and pleasing Him, is a keynote in the spiritual life. Believers are urged elsewhere by Paul, “Give thanks in all circumstances” (1 Thes. 5:18) and to come before God “in everything, by prayer and petition, with thanksgiving” (Phil. 4:6). Four other times in Colossians (3:15–17; 4:2) Paul enjoined believers to be grateful. Joyfulness too is part of the fruit of the Spirit (Gal. 5:22), made possible by the gospel (cf. Isa. 29:19; John 16:20; Acts 13:52).

### Application

As spouses and parents, we need to cultivate a spirit of gratitude and thankfulness. If you’re not already doing it, begin by expressing thanks for even the smallest, simplest things your spouse or children do – mow the lawn, make supper, pick up toys, open the door of the car, took garbage out, etc. We should never take each other for granted nor should we take for granted what the others do as if it was their obligation.

What is important as well is that when we develop a spirit of gratitude for the common, simple things in daily life we will also grow to appreciate even more all that God has done for us. In particular, we should give thanks for the three greatest gifts mentioned in our texts for today:

1. That we have been redeemed through the shedding of His blood, and our sins are forgiven and never remembered anymore. (V.14)

2. That we have been delivered and rescued from the penalty and power of sin. Satan will never have power over us again. (V. 13)

3. That we have been accepted into the kingdom of God for eternity (become eternal citizens of heaven with a new passport and identification) (V. 13)

Paul urges us to always remember with thanks what Christ did for us on the cross. We should pray that our loved ones, our family, our children will remember to be thankful for these three great gifts every day.

Using the principles from the last seven days, write a prayer for your family which incorporates each of the element or prayer requests mentioned. Keep the copy of your prayer in a place where you can refer to it every day as you pray individually for each member of your family, especially for your children.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, thank You that You have rescued us, redeemed us, and that we have been accepted into Your kingdom, all through the life and death of Your Son and our Savior Jesus Christ. Help us to be grateful everyday for these great gifts.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._