---
title: The Essential Role of the Mentor
---

When Christ came to the earth, He set the standard for mentorship ministry. Everything He expected His disciples to do, He Himself did as well, giving them an example to follow. “Most assuredly, I say to you, he who believes in Me, the works that I do he will do also” (John 14:12). In the final hours before His trial and crucifixion, Christ embodied genuine servant leadership by washing His disciples’ feet, explaining, “I have given you an example, that you should do as I have done to you” (John 13:15).

After Jesus returned to heaven, His disciples continued His work here on earth by sharing the message of Christ and raising up leaders who would exemplify those teachings in their own lives. The apostle Peter trained the elders he established, not to behave as “lords over those entrusted to you,” but to be “examples to the flock” (1 Peter 5:3).

This emphasis on personal mentorship is most expressly communicated by the apostle Paul. To the believers in Corinth he wrote, “Imitate me, just as I also imitate Christ” (1 Corinthians 11:1). He implored the brethren in Philippi to “join in following my example, and note those who so walk, as you have us for a pattern” (Philippians 3:17). Like Peter, Paul’s ultimate aim was that those who followed him into faith in Christ might themselves become examples to others:

“For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance, as you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake. And you became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction, with joy of the Holy Spirit, so that you became examples to all in Macedonia and Achaia who believe” (1 Thessalonians 1:5-7).

Workers in God’s last-day church have been likewise counseled, “Let the teachers lead the way in working among the people, and others, uniting with them, will learn from their example. One example is worth more than many precepts” (The Ministry of Healing, p. 149).

A wonderful benefit of the discipleship plan outlined in this Discipleship Handbook is that it will benefit any Seventh-day Adventist, no matter how long the person has been in the church. Those members who serve as discipleship mentors will be especially blessed, often experiencing a spiritual revival from the process. By modeling the spiritual habits encouraged in the Discipleship Handbook, these mentors will not only grow spiritually themselves, but they will also serve as “examples to the flock.” This godly example, consistently passed on from believer to new believer to yet another generation of new believers, is at the heart of a successful, ongoing discipleship ministry.