---
title: Sharing Faith With Friends
subtitle: Chapter 5
---

The parable of the sower, in addition to depicting the vital role of the Word of God in witnessing, also teaches the importance of the right kind of soil for a successful harvest. In every instance given in the parable, the sower was the same, the seed was the same, and the method was the same. The only variable was the condition of the soil, which according to Jesus symbolized the condition of the heart (see Matthew 13:19).

In order for the seed to grow, the soil must be fertile. We can help to create this favorable condition by preparing the soil. In spiritual terms this refers to the work of softening the heart to receive spiritual truth. As mentioned in a previous chapter, this is best accomplished by following the example of Jesus, who “went about doing good” (Acts 10:38). It was through personal ministry to those in need that Christ was able to soften hard hearts and bring down social barriers.

Ellen White elaborates: “The sowers of the seed have a work to do in preparing hearts to receive the gospel. . . . There is need of personal labor for the souls of the lost. In Christlike sympathy we should come close to men individually, and seek to awaken their interest in the great things of eternal life. Their hearts may be as hard as the beaten highway, and apparently it may be a useless effort to present the Savior to them; but while logic may fail to move, and argument be powerless to convince, the love of Christ, revealed in personal ministry, may soften the stony heart, so that the seed of truth can take root” (_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 57).

A renewed emphasis on these principles has led to an increase in need-based ministries in recent years. Many churches and their members have become more intentional about helping their communities through acts of love and kindness. When we show sympathy for people and take a sincere interest in their lives, we discover that they’re more willing to listen to what we have to say about spiritual matters. Such trust is the natural result of truly caring about people’s emotional and physical needs.

Many churches tangibly demonstrate this care by offering such services as depression recovery groups, financial wellness seminars, and healthful cooking classes. Members volunteer for community service projects that provide food, clothing, home repair, and other essentials to those in need. They take part in neighborhood beautification projects, or in ministering to those who are sick or elderly, and to those in prison. These and similar efforts provide to our communities true expressions of the love that Jesus has for every person.

#### Following Christ’s Method

Making friends and ministering to their physical, mental, and emotional needs are vitally important, but these by themselves fall short of Christ’s full example of ministry. Ellen White explains: “Christ’s method alone will give true success in reaching the people. The Savior mingled with men as one who desired their good. He showed His sympathy for them, ministered to their needs, and won their confidence. Then He bade them, ‘Follow Me’ ” (_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 143).

> <callout></callout>
> There is one need all humanity shares, which is greater than all others.

In addition to expressing sympathy for people and ministering to their temporal needs, Jesus also invited them to follow Him and to consider the beauty of eternal truth expressed in His teachings. Unfortunately, the ministry of many Christians remains only temporal. They experience great joy when they minister to people’s physical, emotional, or social needs, and such efforts are generally received with gratefulness. Sharing Bible truth, on the other hand, challenges people’s beliefs and practices in a way that isn’t always welcome. Therefore it’s not uncommon for Christians to focus only on people’s temporal needs and to leave their spiritual needs unaddressed.

Yet as we consider the work of Christ, we see that He cared about the whole person—body, mind, and soul. Yes, Jesus wanted to relieve people’s physical sufferings. But He also understood what so many of us have yet to realize fully—that there is one need all humanity shares, which is greater than all others. We need the salvation that comes only through faith in Jesus Christ. Only then can the longings of the soul be satisfied.

“The great mass of mankind are engrossed in the things of this life, and divine truth can find no abiding-place in their hearts. And yet all the blessings which the world can give fail to satisfy the wants of the soul. There is a nameless longing for something which they have not, a peace and rest that is not born of earth” (_Review and Herald_, February 28, 1882). To fully uplift humanity, we can’t address physical, social, or economic conditions alone: “It is not hardship, toil, or poverty that degrades humanity. It is guilt, wrongdoing. This brings unrest and dissatisfaction. Christ would have His servants minister to sin-sick souls” (_The Desire of Ages_, p. 822).

Above all else, Jesus longed to bring eternal salvation to “sin-sick souls.” The success of Christ’s method refers to the way in which He accomplished this through His ministry, when multitudes listened to His words and chose to follow Him. We too must never be content with ministering to only the temporal needs of people. We must aim to lead every soul to the Living Water, Jesus Christ, to find eternal salvation in Him.

#### From Common to Spiritual

Being warm, friendly, and personable is vital to being an effective witness for Christ. But for many, this is the easy part. The difficulty comes in knowing just how and when to make the transition from talking about common themes to spiritual ones. How do you bring up something spiritual without sounding like you’re preaching and scaring people off? Unfortunately, there’s no special phrase that all respond to positively. And there’s no perfect time that works for everyone. Every person is different. Their personalities, life circumstances, and religious experiences are all different. So when the time comes to plant seeds of truth, there will nearly always be a degree of uncertainty and even awkwardness to face.

Some people assume that they must spend years building relationships before sharing biblical truth. But this also depends on the individual. It isn’t always necessary to spend months or even weeks in preparing the soil of the heart. In some instances, as with the Samaritan woman Christ encountered at Jacob’s well (see John 4:1-26), it can take place in a matter of minutes. We never know if God has already been preparing someone to receive the truth by the workings of providence, the ministry of others, or the quiet influence of the Spirit of God 
upon the heart.

The bottom line is that if you ever want to see a harvest, you’re going to have to plant seeds. Farmers never till the ground indefinitely. They prepare the soil with the purpose of planting. At some point they must “test the soil” to see how it receives the seed. So it is with spiritual sowing.

#### Testing the Soil

Because we can’t read hearts, it’s impossible for us to determine with absolute certainty when a person is ready for the truth. However, there are ways to “test the soil” so that we can begin to find out. Of course in the rare instance that someone initiates a conversation and asks you a spiritual question, no testing is needed. We thank God for such obvious opportunities to share our faith. But in most cases you will need to scatter some “test seeds” by mentioning something spiritual and gauging how the person responds.

Consider a typical conversation with a friend. You begin by discussing one of the common themes upon which your relationship has been built thus far, such as family, work, world news, or weather. If she comments on the crazy weather we’ve been having, you could respond by saying, “You know, I was just reading something in the Bible about that.” If he tells you he’s having difficulty with his teenager, you could reply, “Our pastor brought up a great way of dealing with that in prayer meeting last week.” Perhaps she shares that she’s been feeling depressed. You can respond with “I know this may sound different, but when I’ve felt depressed, the thing that has helped me the most is prayer.”

People will usually respond to spiritual elements inserted into a conversation in one of two ways. They will either show an interest in your response or change the subject and move on to something else. This will help you to determine their level of interest in spiritual things at that particular point in time. Keep in mind that things can change quickly, so don’t stop throwing out the occasional “test seed.”

> <callout></callout>
> It’s hard to argue with the testimony of someone’s personal experience.

In addition to helping you _discover_ people who have an interest in eternal things, planting seeds can also help to _awaken_ interest. Ellen White instructs, “We must in our work not only strike the iron when it is hot but make the iron hot by striking” (_Evangelism_, p. 647). Many of the people we come in contact with are entirely desensitized to spiritual things. Unless someone draws their attention to eternal realities, they may never be awakened out of their carnal slumber. This is what it means to “make the iron hot by striking.”

“I want to say, brethren and sisters, that we must labor for the wandering where they are. You need not expect those who have the chilling influence of the world upon them to manifest anxiety for their own souls. We must manifest it for them” (_Manuscript Releases_, vol. 18, p. 284). We worry too much about what people will think if we talk to them about spiritual things. While we shouldn’t seek to offend, we should be just as enthusiastic in telling others about Jesus and the Bible as they are about telling us what’s important to them.

#### Telling Your Story

One of the simplest and most natural ways to bridge to spiritual subjects is by sharing your own experience of what Christ has done in your life. The apostle Paul, a well-educated theologian, did not lean on his intellectual arguments when given opportunities to defend his faith before unbelievers. Instead, he chose to share his own conversion story and to testify of what God had done in his life (see Acts 22:1-21; 26:1-29). It’s hard to argue with the testimony of someone’s personal experience.

Another powerful Bible example of this can be found in the story of the demoniacs of the Gadarenes. After Jesus had set them free from the powers of darkness, they were so grateful that they wanted to go with Him and leave their home behind. Instead, He commanded them, “Return to your own house, and tell what great things God has done for you” (Luke 8:39).

Commenting on this, Ellen White wrote: “They could not instruct the people as the disciples who had been daily with Christ were able to do. But they bore in their own persons the evidence that Jesus was the Messiah. They could tell what they knew; what they themselves had seen, and heard, and felt of the power of Christ. This is what everyone can do whose heart has been touched by the grace of God. . . . We can bear witness to what we have known of the grace of Christ. This is the witness for which our Lord calls, and for want of which the world is perishing” (_The Desire of Ages_, p. 340).

The power of your testimony is that it makes the “old, old story” more than just a story. It can make the good news of salvation real to someone who has previously viewed it as nothing more than a lifeless theory or an imaginary fairy tale. Accompanied by a transformed life, a personal testimony will not fail to convict hearts: “Thousands can be reached in the most simple and humble way. The most intellectual, those who are looked upon as the world’s most gifted men and women, are often refreshed by the simple words of one who loves God, and who can speak of that love as naturally as the worldling speaks of the things that interest him most deeply. Often the words well prepared and studied have but little influence. But the true, honest expression of a son or daughter of God, spoken in natural simplicity, has power to unbolt the door to hearts that have long been closed against Christ and His love” (_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 232).

#### How to Share Your Testimony

Sometimes a friend may ask you questions during a conversation that lead naturally into an opportunity to share your testimony. In other cases you might just sense that your friend would be open to hearing about what God has done in your life. You could say: “God has really changed my life in so many positive and powerful ways. I’m so thankful for the new peace I have in my life. Would you mind if I shared my story with you?” If your friend says yes, what should you do next? Is there an ideal way to share your testimony?

First, remember that your testimony is _your_ story. There are no hard and fast rules when it comes to sharing it. However, we can learn valuable lessons on how to share our testimony effectively by studying how the apostle Paul shared his testimony with King Agrippa. In this powerful address he started by speaking of his early life as a Jew, including his role in the persecution of Christians (Acts 26:4-11). He then shared his conversion experience (verses 12-18) and his life since that conversion (verses 19-23). Finally, he appealed to Agrippa to accept Christ for himself (verses 24-29). Following Paul’s example, you can share your personal testimony of what Christ has done in your life in four simple steps:

**1. Tell what your life was like before Christ.** This is an opportunity to identify with your listeners. The purpose of this part of your testimony is not to glamorize a life of sin, but to help your listeners understand that you were not born converted (even if you have been raised “in the faith” your whole life), but have the same sinful nature as they do, with all its liabilities. Tell what your life was missing that led you to seek for something more.

**2. Explain how you came to Christ.** Tell about what happened to bring you into a real, meaningful experience with Jesus. Tell the steps you followed, and the struggles you faced, to accept Him as your Savior and Lord. Help your listeners to understand what steps a person needs to take in order to be set free from sin and guilt. Make sure your testimony is less about you and more about Jesus and His love for sinners.

**3. Tell about your new life with Jesus.** Tell about how your life has changed for the better with Christ. Don’t dwell on what you have had to “give up” to follow Jesus. Share how you have been blessed by your journey since that time, and tell of the Lord’s faithfulness to you in challenging times.

**4. Appeal to your listener(s) to turn to Jesus.** In a simple and direct way, encourage your listeners to “taste and see that the Lord is good” (Psalm 34:8). They can do this by reading the Bible with an open heart, seeking God through simple and honest prayer, and trusting God with whatever their current struggles may be. Assure them that everything God has done for you, He is able and willing to do for them.

It may be helpful to write out your testimony, especially if you’ve never shared it before. Practice it so that you’ll be ready if the opportunity arises (see 1 Peter 3:15). It’s often the case that time does not allow you to share all the details of your testimony, but you can still be prepared to share experiences that are part of your overall story.

The Lord will sometimes put people in your pathway who are struggling in the same areas in which you yourself have struggled and prevailed (see 2 Corinthians 1:4). These are great opportunities to share short and specific testimonies of your experience. You might talk about how God helped you through the loss of a loved one, how He led you to forgive someone who hurt you, how He gave you the victory over some destructive habit, or how He provided for you when you decided to return tithe or keep the Sabbath. As you share with others your stories of God’s faithfulness, invite and encourage them to trust and obey God in specific areas of their own lives.

#### Inspiring Eternal Hope

Those who don’t know Christ have never experienced true peace and joy. Though they may not openly express it, all around us are people who feel empty and dissatisfied with their lives. So many feel trapped by their circumstances or enslaved by their own sins and weaknesses. They’re looking for hope. This is precisely why planting seeds of truth through spiritual conversations or personal testimonies is so needed.

Consider the story of Kenny, who was raised in a Christian home as a young boy, but whose parents stopped going to church before he was 10 years old. In his teen years Kenny lived for the world, rarely thinking about God or heaven. If he was asked, he would claim to be a Christian, but he would hide the fact that he didn’t know anything about the Bible. He thought that someday he would read just enough to avoid being embarrassed if he were ever asked about it.

It wasn’t until college that Kenny opened a Bible and began to read. He couldn’t believe what he found there! It wasn’t like anything he had ever read before. His heart was gripped by the sacrifice of Christ. He was awakened to eternal realities and saw Jesus as His personal Savior. All his life he had tried to fit in and gain the approval of others, but he now knew that he didn’t have to try in order to be loved by Jesus. He sensed that his whole life was about to change. And it was. His view of the world was now different. He had hope and purpose in his life. Kenny began living for Christ and eternity.

The world needs to hear the simple stories of people like Kenny, who have found hope through the love of God. They need to hear your story. Your real-life experience can help them to see that the Bible has the power to change their hearts and lives. When you insert spiritual insights or experiences into your conversations with others, you remind them that this life is temporary, but that its decisions have eternal significance. Making friends for God is an essential part of Christ’s method, but Christians are not content with merely gaining friends on earth. Pray that God will open up opportunities for you to transition into spiritual conversations or to share your testimony. And by the grace of God, let’s make friends for eternity!