---
title: The Right Criteria
---

To get the right decision we must provide the right criteria. People always make decisions by testing against criteria they have developed through life. When a man says, “I like that pie,” it is because it meets the test of criteria he has developed over time that is self satisfying in regard to what a “good pie” is. If we ask him, “Are you willing to keep the Sabbath?” he will naturally test it with his criteria that he has developed that brings self satisfaction, and will begin to think of what his pastor, parents, children, etc., will think. He will ask himself questions like, “What about my job?”

We don’t want him to test by his criteria. We need to provide the criteria of the love of Christ and say, “Is pleasing Jesus important enough for you to keep the Sabbath?” In addition, provide a reference source: “When you remember that Jesus who died for you said, ‘If you love me, keep my commandments,’ are you willing to keep the Sabbath to respond to His love for you and show your love for Him?” Notice that by making John 14:15 the reference source you have prevented him from using non-Biblical reference sources for his test. The decision you want should be based on Biblical criteria and not his own.

Here is a powerful strategy: Determine what you want your student to decide. Select the Biblical criteria/reference source you want him/her to use as a test for the decision. Formulate your request mentioning your reference source first, and then ask the specific question.

**Examples**:

- I want James to decide to be baptized next Sabbath. I want him to do it because of Mark 16:16. I’ll make the request using these words: “James, you’ve believed in Jesus and given your heart to Him. Jesus said in Mark 16:16, ‘He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved’. Do you believe what Jesus said? Do you believe it enough to be baptized this Sabbath?”
- I want Mary to decide on living a healthy life style. I want her to do so because her body is the temple of God. The reference source is: I Corinthians 6:19, 20. I’ll make the request using these words: “Mary, you’ve given your heart to Jesus. Since Jesus says to you through Paul in I Corinthians 6:19, 20 that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, are you willing to live the healthy life style that He told you about? Are you willing to begin now?”