---
title: The Day Nicky Fell
date: 07/20/2025
---

_Nicole Sydenham_

> <p></p>
> Yet there is one ray of hope: his compassion never ends. It is only the Lord's mercies that have kept us from complete destruction. Great is his faithfulness; his lovingkindness begins afresh each day. . . . The Lord is wonderfully good to those who wait for him, to those who seek for him. Lam. 3:21-25, TLB.

It was a hot July 20 at Camp White Sand in Saskatchewan when I heard, "A child's fallen from a horse." I rushed to the scene. "It's Nicky," someone screamed. Suddenly my knees weakened. Nicky was my 10-year-old daughter.

"Nicky, Nicky, it's Mommy," I said as I bent over her. When I saw her eyes and vomiting, I knew her head injury was serious.

At the hospital the doctor said, "Madam, it is very serious. You will need a lot of prayer. In six months to a year she might regain 90 percent of her brain capacity, or it could be worse."

Around the world people prayed for her.

For 10 days the doctors kept Nicky in an induced coma and under as many as 15 medications at one time to attempt to reduce the pressure on her brain and keep her alive. She had 19 tubes and wires hooked up to her.

When she was transferred to a children's ward, she almost died twice. We could tell she couldn't breathe, but no one would believe us, so we prayed, "Please bring the right nurse or doctor." Ron, my husband, felt he had to do something, so he put Nicky in a wheelchair and pushed her out into the hall. A doctor "happened" by and yelled, "This child can't breathe. Rush her to surgery. I'll go scrub," and he put a tracheostomy in.

One day Ron was standing by Nicky's bed, crying, "Lord, please save my little girl." Her body was burning with fever, but the hand he held was limp and ice-cold. And in response, he heard, "Yes, Ron, I do want to save your daughter from her fall, just as I want to save all My children from the Fall, and restore them to My original design."

I held on to Lamentations 3:21-26 and Jeremiah 29:11-14. The Living Bible translates verse 14: "I will . . . restore your fortunes." I would substitute Nicky's name for the word "fortunes."

After 46 days in the hospital, Nicky was released, still with a tracheostomy, but miraculously with 100 percent brain capacity! God had restored our "fortunes."

> <callout></callout>
> Thank You, my Saviour, for giving Your life to save me from the Fall!

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._