---
title: Utilizing the ABCs of Decision That Jesus Used
---

### A = Acceptance

Jesus accepted men and women in the condition He found them. He established relationships and a confidence bond first before attempting change. Here are the ingredients of acceptance, the three A’s of social contact.

**Agreement**: Seek it out no matter how small. “Agree with the people in every point where you can consistently do so.”<sup>19</sup>

**Approval**: When others condemned Mary, Jesus praised her (Luke 7:44-50).

**Appreciation**: Jesus complimented the centurion (Matthew 8:10). Jesus looked for a good point to compliment, even regarding a scribe (Mark 12:34).

Show people you accept them where they are. Don’t be repelled by their negative attitudes or actions. Don’t appear shocked at any response they make.

Demonstrate acceptance by getting them to talk about themselves. Focus on them, not on yourself. “Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth” (Proverbs 27:2). Look and listen to build a bond of unity. Ask deep, penetrating questions about the topics of their interest. This kind of friendship will help to build bridges over which the truth can march into the mind and be accepted.

### B = Believe

Believe the person sincerely desires truth and wants to follow Jesus. Believe he/she is winable. Christ was effective with the woman at the well, the centurion, the demoniac, and the thief on the cross because He believed they were winable. He believed that, although they were caught in struggles and conflicts, they desired something better. They were not worthless. “In every human being He discerned infinite possibilities. He saw men as they might be, transfigured by His grace.”<sup>20</sup> He read their inner longings and believed the Holy Spirit could work through Him.

To believe people are hard hearted, unresponsive, and unreachable tends to produce such a response. Studies show a strong correlation between a pastor’s and members’ belief in the church growth potential of their church and its actual growth. Jesus recognized the tremendous potential of each person, such as Peter. He saw not a rough outspoken fisherman, but a mighty preacher. Christ accepted people as they were, and believed in them.

### C = Confidence

Jesus confidently expected those He encountered to make a decision. The early church grew by addition (Acts 2 – 4) and then by multiplication (Acts 9:31; 21:20) because its members were confident that the Gentiles would listen. “They will hear it” (Acts: 28:28). Paul preached and taught “with all confidence” (verse 31) about the Lord Jesus Christ.

Let us review the ABCs: We must accept men and women as they are by being agreeable, manifesting approval, and expressing appreciation. Believe they are sincere, genuine, and winable. Confidently expect them to make eternal decisions.

Put these principles to work and watch God work through you to bring about success in leading people to decisions.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>19</sup> Evangelism, p. 141.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>20</sup> Education, p. 80.