---
title: "Seven Prayer Requests: That They Will Be Strong and Mighty"
date: 25/06/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> “Strengthened with all might, according to His glorious power. . .” Colossians 1:11

### Observation

The radical idea of might, is that of indwelling strength, especially as embodied: might which inheres in physical powers organized and working under individual direction, as an army: which appears in the resistance of physical organisms, as the earth, against which one dashes himself in vain: which dwells in persons or things, and gives them influence or value: which resides in laws or punishments to make them irresistible. This sense comes out clearly in the New Testament in the use of the word and of its cognates. Thus, “Love the Lord thy God with all thy strength” (Mark 12:30): “according to the working of his mighty power” (Eph. 1:19). The kindred adjective is used in other places in the New Testament and translated differently but with a similar sense: “A strong man” (Matt. 12:29): a mighty famine (Luke 15:14): his letters are powerful (2 Cor. 10:10): a strong consolation (Heb. 6:18): a mighty angel (Apoc. 18:21). Also the verb σχω. “It is good for nothing” (Matt. 5:13): “shall not be able” (Luke 13:24): “I can do all things” (Philip. 4:13): “availeth much” (Jas. 5:16).

### Application

One of the challenges that sometimes parents face is with children who are, as James Dobson describes, “strong-willed children.” These are the children who have a mind of their own and who seem to want to run the opposite way to where their parents want them to go. A dictionary definition might be obstinate, stubborn, which have negative connotations.

Let’s think of a more positive side to strong-willed. Someone strong-willed doesn’t give up easily. A strong-willed person is determined. Your will is your desire or drive to do something, so a strong-willed person is someone with a powerful will – that is a good thing!. At the same time, it can be a bad thing. For instance, a child who insists on going outside in the rain and throws a temper tantrum unless he/she gets his/her way is strong-willed in a stubborn way. Someone with deep beliefs, who can stand up to the crowd, who will not be swayed by his/her peers is strong-willed in a better way. A hero, someone who shows courage, someone who fights for what is right, is also strong-willed. You have to be strong-willed to stand up for what you believe, particularly during difficult situations.

Dallas Cowboys coach Tom Landry used to say, “Don't pray for an easy life. Pray to be a strong person.” This is exactly what Scripture is admonishing here. Pray each day that your family will be able to make tough decisions based on God's principles and will be able to remain strong and mighty.

Instead of praying that your child have a soft, easy, mellow personality, pray that they will be strong in their convictions, mighty in their beliefs, powerful in their conscience, mean and women of valor for God.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, while it might be easier to raise a child who is compliant, I pray that my child will be strong in the face of temptation and sin, mighty as they speak and live for You, and courageous even when the consequences may be painful for them.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._