---
title: Prevention
---

If you have a bucket and it is leaking, what do you do? Should you just keep pouring more water into it or do you plug the holes first? Many times we keep pouring more into the church with evangelism but neglect plugging the holes first. Here are eight ways to plug holes:

1. One basic reason Sabbath School Action Units were established around the world was to first care for missing members. The leader of the units of six to eight takes the first five minutes of the one hour class time to welcome everyone and to care for the missing. In large classes the teacher rarely notices who is missing. They may be missing for a year before anyone notices. But when there are only six to eight in the class it is very easy to notice who is missing. In fact in such a small group someone who is missing is really missed. His or her contribution to the interactive discussion of outreach and the lesson is greatly missed—immediately. And there is immediate action to change that regrettable situation. An immediate visit is arranged—not six months later when the member’s fervor for Sabbath school has evaporated—but immediately.

The secretary of the class usually passes a card around and each member writes a little encouraging note expressing how the person was missed. The discussion group leader asks who would like to take the card and call or visit the one missing that afternoon or during the week. This really works. And it is much easier than chasing after people who have lost interest. Certainly God’s first choice is for us to work together to retain so we don’t have to reclaim.

2. All new members should be more thoroughly grounded in the message through Bible study and through the benefits that naturally come when they share Jesus with others. They should be assisted to establish a personal relationship with Christ and trained to share Christ so that nothing can shake them from His family.
3. Provide other services that meet the felt needs of the members. Missing members often refer to the church as being irrelevant to their needs. You might take a survey to help identify the needs. Arrange seminars by specialists on those topics. Hold the meetings at times when the members needing them can attend. You might extend the benefits of the seminars by organizing small groups that will deal with those relevant topics on a continuing basis.
4. Make the church into a loving fellowship. The principles of building a church family are the same as those holding a marriage or family together—speaking kindly, learning to say “I’m sorry.” Everyone should watch for those who are hurting and encourage them.
5. Greeters at the door should make everyone feel welcomed and appreciated. Make it a golden rule of your church that everyone who attends will be greeted by a smiling host or hostess. The pastor and other leaders should be part of this welcoming endeavor as often as possible. Ask how the week went and inquire about family members. Make everyone feel they are family.
6. Know who is in attendance and quickly visit those who are not. Here again, the Sabbath School Action Units are excellent for this purpose. There are, however, some who work in other divisions of the Sabbath School, and some who for health, or other reasons, may not be attending Sabbath school. Keep a record of attendance. When someone misses one Sabbath mail a note that evening. If they miss two Sabbaths go visit them. Plug the holes immediately.
7. Organize and train a visitation team. Most of this leaflet has emphasized visitation because it is the key. The cry of many former members is, “How can the church say it cares about me if no one has visited me for 10 years? You can’t love me if you don’t know me.” Sometimes visitation teams meet former members who have not been visited in 20 years since they left the church. Sermons, seminars, articles, and books on caring will not take the place of simply noticing who is in church and visiting them when they are not.
8. At minimum, review the entire church membership list every six months and find out who is missing. Each church board should discover which members are not attending and see that they are visited by those who are most likely to encourage them.