---
title: "Seven Prayer Requests: Live Fruitful Lives"
date: 06/22/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> Being fruitful in every good work. . .” Colossians 1:10

### Observation

“Bearing fruit” is the first manifestation of their “walking worthy of the Lord.”

One of the activities of the saint in the sphere of a behavior which is worthy of the Lord, is fruitbearing. This fruitbearing and increasing is to be, not in the knowledge of God, since the latter is the motivating energy which produces the former, but by means of the knowledge of God.

### Application

One of the images we find in the Bible is that of being rooted to illustrate being grounded in God’s Word. A person who is grounded in God is compared to a tree: “He shall be like a tree Planted by the rivers of water, That brings forth its fruit in its season, Whose leaf also shall not wither; And whatever he does shall prosper” Psalm 1:3 (NKJV). The prophet Isaiah speaks of the remnant of God who are very fruitful because their roots go down deep: “And the remnant who have escaped of the house of Judah Shall again take root downward, And bear fruit upward” Isaiah 37:31 (NKJV).

We can pray that our spouse and children be successful in life. We can pray for the promotion which for which they have been hoping and toward which they have been working hard. We can pray that the time and effort they have put forth in their studies will pay off in the form of good grades, and that they will graduate, and that they will have employment in the career they have chosen. We can pray that their business venture or their investments will pay off. But most importantly, we must pray daily that they may have a spiritually fruitful life through effort and sacrifice which will ultimately become a blessing to others.

Some young people have decided to dedicate their time and talent to bless others in countries where the need is great and the means meager. They have gone to teach, as student missionaries, and given at least one year of their lives to learn about a different culture at the same time as they teach about God. Many have returned as missionaries in the medical fields, as educators, as builders, and doing many other things to improve the quality of life in countries where good health or education is not readily available. These young people, and some older ones too, may not be rich in worldly goods, as some of their contemporaries; at the same time, they can see so much tangible proof of their good, unselfish, dedicated work in the lives of people who may not even be alive were it not for their dedication and commitment.

But you don’t have to go to the mission field or outside of the country in order to bear good fruit. There are many people close to where we live, in our neighborhood, at work, at school, who would benefit greatly from the love and service of dedicated Christians. Pray that your loved ones, your spouse, your children, may bear fruit as they relate to these people and that they may see the reward of their work as they see changed lives.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, bless my husband/wife, bless my children, that they may be successful in what they do, not simply to enrich themselves but rather to enrich the lives of others. May they bear rich fruit that will make other people’s lives better.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._