---
title: The Father’s Heart
subtitle: Week 1
---

God, our Father in heaven, is the source of all true love. We see His love expressed in a myriad of ways—a beautiful sunrise; the timeless expressions of God’s loving, holy character in His living Word; the constancy of the steady ocean tides; the forgiveness of an old friend; a child’s tight hug.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
How do you most clearly see it?

God’s love is pure, selfless, everlasting. It was expressed most clearly when Jesus came to earth. “Christ came to the world with the accumulated love of eternity” (Ellen G. White, _Education_, p. 76). He offers this love to you today, tomorrow, and every day into eternity, and He hopes you’ll love Him back.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ Many parents speak of their hearts “expanding” when their little one is born. Others may take a bit longer to bond, especially if the circumstances surrounding the birth were difficult. How have you felt your heart change since your baby was born?
+ Have you had new insights into God’s heart of love that you couldn’t comprehend before becoming a parent? Share these with the group.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

Read Ephesians 5:1, 2.

+ What does it look like to “imitate” God the Father in our experience as parents?
+ What does it practically look like to “walk in love” when parenting a little baby?
+ What things are you currently “giving up” to raise your little one that help you better understand what God did for you?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss and Reflect

Read and discuss Matthew 25:34-40. In many ways our babies meet Jesus’ description of “the least of these.” Right now these tiny humans need to be fed, clothed, and nurtured, but they are unable to “give back.” With someone beside you, discuss:

+ Are there times you struggle to serve your baby’s needs with genuine love? Don’t feel ashamed of such feelings. Every parent is confronted with this reality in one way or another. If you feel comfortable, share an example, and why you think this happened.
+ “Inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these . . . , you did it to Me” (Matthew 25:40). What might change in your thoughts or actions if you thought about serving Jesus each time you attended to your little one’s needs?

The more you give God’s love to those around you, the more God will fill your heart with _His_ love. Even during sleepless nights, new stressors, and constant parental demands, God wants to help you grow a heart of love. Ask Him for this, and also share with Him your insufficiencies and needs.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

+ Which of the different love languages do you most commonly express (physical touch, gifts, quality time, words of affirmation, or service)?
+ What spiritual habits might help you grow in love? Make a list as a group and discuss these with your spouse or a friend during the week.
+ Considering the busy realities of parenting a baby, what would it take for you to implement these positive spiritual habits, keeping in mind that sometimes we simply need rest? What kinds of creative solutions might be necessary? What special help might single parents need?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Thank God for showing you what it means to be a good parent.\
Ask Him to grow more of His love in you for your little one (as well\
as your spouse or family members) so that you can love\
your baby the way He does.