---
title: The Home Of God
---

> <p></p>
> “I dwell in the high and holy place, with him who has a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite ones” (Isa. 57:15, NKJV).

In 1791 a boy named John Howard Payne was born in New York City. He became a famous actor, not only in United States, but also in England and France. From 1842 to 1845 and again in 1851 and 1852, he was an American consul in Tunisia, in Northern Africa. He died while serving there and was buried in the same place. But thirty years later, in 1882, his body was taken back to America and buried among famous people in Dumbarton Oaks cemetery in the country’s capital.

On his burial day, there in Washington, D.C., the Congress and Supreme Court interrupted their activities to honor the event. Even the president, vice-president and cabinet members followed the funeral down Pennsylvania Avenue. Can you imagine the reason he received such great honor? Was it because he was famous? Oh, no! Was it because he was an honorable consul? Oh, no! You would not guess. It was because he was the author of that loved and beautiful song: “Home, Sweet Home!” The song was sung by a thousand-voice choir next to his grave.

Here are some of the lyrics: “Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam, be it ever so humble, there’s no place like home. A charm from the sky seems to hallow us there, which, seek through the world, is ne’er met with elsewhere.”

Every language on earth has a word for term “house”, but only Christian nations’ languages have a word for the term “home”. Home is a house where people love God and one another. Solomon had in his heart a desire to “build a house for the name of the Lord.” No doubt God was happy in blessing that house with His presence. But Isaiah tells us that God will live “also with the one who is contrite and lowly in spirit.” What a sublime thought! We can make of our heart a beautiful home, where God will be pleased to live! Is your heart contrite (repentant)? Do you recognize your mistakes and confess your sins? Are you humble? If so, you will know God’s joy.

_—Eric B. Hare, Make God First, p. 182_