---
title: Pray that you may not be tempted
date: 08/09/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> When He came to the place, He said to them, "Pray that you may not enter into temptation. . . 46 Then He said to them, "Why do you sleep? Rise and pray, lest you enter into temptation." Luke 22:40, 46

### Observation

Jesus twice (vv. 40, 46) represents prayer as the disciples’ primary protection against temptation. Yet they slept.

Temptations may be all around you, yet you are safe as long as you do not enter into them. Many of us are overcome by Satan because we walk right into temptation. . . . It is your business to keep aloof from everyone and everything which will have a tendency to lead you away from duty and divert your mind from God. . . . If compelled to be in the society of those who are evil, you are not compelled to enter into or engage in their evil. You can, by prayer and watching, remain unsullied by the evil manifested about you. [Ellen G. White, Our High Calling, p.132]

### Application

Jesus knew that it was critically important for the disciples to spend time in prayer, particularly as His time to leave them was at hand. How it must have broken His heart to find them sleeping instead of praying.

I wonder how many couples are found sleeping, in the morning or in the evening, instead of spending time in prayer that God will help them overcome the temptations that will most certainly come their way? How many parents are sleeping instead of spending time on their knees praying that their children may not enter into temptation? The battles we have to fight daily, the challenges we face everyday, cannot be won on our strength. . . they are simply too hard, too heavy, to strong for us.

If you’re not spending time in prayer for yourself, for your spouse, for your relationship, for your children, for your family, I encourage you to begin anew today. Here are some things you might want to begin doing:

1. Personal time of prayer. Besides the private time for “verbal” prayer, you may consider writing down your prayers. Some people tell me that they get distracted during their prayer; this is one way to stay on track. Another way to eliminate distractions during prayer is to pray out loud – speak your prayers.

2. Couple prayer – set aside time in the morning, before going your separate ways, or at night, before going to bed, for prayer together with your spouse. Read a passage from the bible, or a portion of a book on marriage, and then pray together. Take turns praying for each other every day.

3. Pray for your children. Set time for a short prayer with your children. If they are away, e-mail them or text them a few words to remind them you love them and you are praying for them. Be specific about your prayers for them and tell them so: “You’re in my mind and prayers today as you take that test.” “I wish you the best during your job interview. . . I will be praying for you.”

4. Pray with and for your family. Gather the family for morning and/or evening worship. Make it short, age appropriate, and enjoyable. Ellen White tells us about this special time: “Questions may be asked, a few earnest, interesting remarks made, or incident, short and to the point, may be brought in by way of illustration. At least a few verses of spirited song may be sung, and the prayer offered should be short and pointed. The one who leads in prayer should not pray about everything, but should express his needs in simple words and praise God with thanksgiving” (Child Guidance, 521).

Continue, or begin again, this special practice of prayer. Jesus’ disciples needed it. . . and so do we.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, awaken in us the desire to spend time with You in prayer, not simply as a habit but as a wonderful way to maintain the lines of communication between us open and strong especially as we face temptation.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._