---
title: Build Your Life on God’s Word
---

### Parable of the Two Builders

Matthew 7:24-27

_Prepared by: Shawna Trotman Henry, Children’s Ministries Director, Center for Youth Evangelism_

> <p>Key Theme</p>
> Jesus wants me to listen to God’s words and obey them.

> <p>Key Text</p>
> “Therefore everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like a wise man who built his house on the rock.” Matthew 7:24 (NIV)

### Objectives

- **Head**: Students will understand that the Bible provides instructions for living for Jesus.

- **Heart**: Students will believe that hearing and obeying God’s Word (the Bible) is the guide to living for Jesus.

- **Hand**: Students will complete activities that demonstrate the Bible as a guide for living.

### Supplies

- Scripture Prayers handout below (Parents will need to cut into strips prior to worship.)
- Colored Jumbo Craft Sticks
- Popsicle/Craft Sticks (10)
- Stone patterned paper
- Sand (small amount in ziplock bag)-hardware store
- Construction Paper-natural colors
- Bible
- Songs for singing
- Laptop/device
- Downloaded mission story and mission activity supplies
- Washable markers, crayons, colored pencils, etc
- Glue
- Paper
- Pen/Pencils

### Program Outline

#### Song Service

- Option A: Sing your favorite family songs
- Option B: Create a kids’ worship song video with people from your church
- Option C: Use [this playlist](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYWQgzW0QFR2Lp03LNm0Hyw)

#### Opening Discussion

Say: If I asked you to bake a cake right now, without a recipe, could you do it? How do you think it would come out? What would you need in order to bake a delicious and attractive cake? _(Allow children to discuss what would happen if they tried to bake the cake without instructions. Discuss, the importance of a recipe that would outline supplies and offer detailed instructions)_

In today’s lesson we will learn about two persons who built houses. One used good instructions. The other didn’t. Let’s see how their houses turned out and what made the difference.

#### Key Text

> “Therefore everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like a wise man who built his house on the rock.” Matthew 7:24 (NIV)

#### Key Theme

Today we will learn the importance of listening to and obeying the Bible. Say the key theme together: **“Jesus wants me to listen to God’s words and obey them.”**

#### Opening Song

Play/Sing: [“The Wise Man Built His House Upon the Rock”](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zAjEjxX-DhA) (use actions).

#### Prayer (Craft Stick Scripture Prayers)

_Note: This will take some advanced prep. Cut scripture prayers handout (see below) with each scripture in a different strip. Glue adoration/praise scriptures on the purple sticks, confession scriptures on red sticks, thanksgiving scriptures on green sticks, and supplication/asking scriptures on blue sticks._

**Adoration**

Psalm 95:6 “Oh come, let us worship and bow down; let us kneel before the Lord, our Maker!”

Psalm 99:5 “Exalt the Lord our God; worship at his footstool! Holy is He!”

Psalm 150:2 “Praise him for his mighty deeds; praise him according to his excellent greatness!”

Psalm 150:6 “Let everything that has breath praise the Lord! Praise the Lord!”

**Confession**

1 John 1:9 “If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.”

Romans 10:10 “For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved.”

Romans 10:9 “If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.”

Psalm 51:10 “Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me.”

**Thanksgiving**

1 Chron 16:34 “Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!”

Col 3:15 “... And be thankful.”

1 Thess 5:18 “Give thanks in all circumstances...”

Phil 4:6 ... with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.

**Supplication**

Matthew 7:8 “For everyone who asks receives...”

Heb 4:16 “Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.”

Phil 4:19 “And my God will supply every need.”

Matthew 7:7 “Ask, and it will be given to you.”

Place scripture sticks in a cup/jar. Have each person pick a few sticks and pray those scriptures out loud. You may add some of your own prayers as well.

#### Mission Spotlight

Read this week’s mission lesson [here](https://am.adventistmission.org/mq-children)

In addition, you may choose to do one of the activities listed on the mission site.

**or**

Watch this week’s mission video [here](https://m360.tv/stories)

**and**

Put aside your offering in a special container. You may want to decorate a special jar/cup/container for your mission offering.

#### Key Text

> “Therefore everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like a wise man who built his house on the rock.” Matthew 7:24 (NIV)

#### Reading God’s Word
Matthew 7:24-27

Read the story of the Parable of the Builders in your favorite Bible Version.

After reading do the one of the following:

**Younger Children**

Watch the story [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CXWHLB1f6_U)

**Older Children**

Dramatize the story. Use spray bottles of water (rain) and big fans (wind), flashlights (lightning) and loud claps (thunder) to simulate the storms when you dramatize the story.

#### Interacting with God’s Word

Discuss any or all of the following questions:

- What made the difference between the house that withstood the storm and house that didn’t?
- What is Jesus telling us to do?
- What does the rock represent?
- The rock represents the words of God found in the Bible. Is it enough just to have the Bible? Or do we need to do more? (Get them to talk about the importance of listening and obeying God’s Word)
- How can I apply this story to my life now?

#### Make it Stick Activity

**Younger Children**

Parable of the Builders Craft. Follow the instructions as described [here](http://faithsprouts.blogspot.com/2015/01/jesus-teaches-me-to-be-wise.html)

Add the following titles to the appropriate house:

The wise man built his house on the rock.\
When I read and obey God’s Word, I am like the wise man.

The foolish man built his house on the sand.\
When I disobey God’s Word, I am like the foolish man

**Older Children**

Take turns making up real-life scenarios that illustrate “rock” (wise/Bible based) or “sand” (unwise/non-Bible based) decisions. Share these with the rest of the family and have others determine if the choices are wise (rock) or unwise (sand) decisions.

#### Key Text

> “Therefore everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like a wise man who built his house on the rock.” Matthew 7:24 (NIV)

#### Recap and Prayer

Jesus wants me to listen to God’s words and obey them.

Pray asking God to help us to be wise, and to listen and obey His Word.

#### Bonus challenge for older children/teens/youth

Make a word search puzzle with key words from today’s lesson. You can use an online tool like [this one](http://puzzlemaker.discoveryeducation.com/WordSearchSetupForm.asp)

Challenge a family member or church friend to complete your word search.