---
title: Worth
subtitle: Week 11
---

It’s no easy job to grow a deep, appropriate sense of worth in children. Affirm too little, and they may struggle with low self-worth. Affirm too much or in unhelpful ways, and they may develop proud, selfish egos. Despite these ditches on either side of the path, love for our babies will lead us to try our very best to help them develop pure, healthy views of themselves and their worth to God.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ How does a person with too little self-worth behave?
+ How does a person with too lofty an opinion of himself behave?
+ What types of parenting or life events do you think might contribute to these character traits? What other factors contribute to a child’s sense of self-worth?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

+ Psalm 8 is a psalm about human worth in relation to God’s greatness. Read the full psalm and discuss the following:
- Verses 1 and 9 form bookends to the psalm, ascribing worth to God. How can a God-centered focus in the home prevent little egos from making themselves the center?
- Verses 2-8 are the heart of the psalm, focusing on human worth. Share your thoughts on the incredible value placed upon all human beings as it is described in this passage. How might these truths, expressed in the home, help prevent low self-worth?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Share the ideas from the following quote that challenge you the most.

> “Whenever the mother can speak a word of commendation for the good conduct of her children, she should do so. She should encourage them by words of approval and looks of love. These will be as sunshine to the heart of a child and will lead to the cultivation of self-respect” (Ellen G. White, _Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 3, p. 532).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect and Challenge

Our little ones don’t learn their self-worth in a textbook—they absorb it!

+ Always affirm your child’s effort and their good character qualities rather than their personal identity. (“Your actions were so kind when you did that for your sister” instead of “You’re a good girl being kind.”)
+ Mothers, do you speak negatively about your body in front of your daughter?
+ Fathers, do you affirm your sons—even if it feels awkward, and even if your own father never affirmed you?
+ Do you boast in a prideful way in front of your children?
+ Are you grounded enough in your God-given worth to accept criticism graciously, or do you pridefully kick against it? Do you wilt in low self-esteem 
if critiqued?

This week, take time to prayerfully consider your own sense of self-worth as a parent and what it might be teaching your child.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Thank God for making us worthy in both creation\
and redemption. Ask Him to help us nurture a deep, abiding\
sense of self-respect in our children.