---
title: “Did You Forget to Wash Your Face this Morning?”
---

A young lady wearing jewelry and makeup boarded a bus and sat by a pastor. When he identified himself as a minister she asked, “What church?” When he stated, “Seventh-day Adventist,” she leaned back a bit and defiantly said, “I used to be a Seventh- day Adventist.” Then turning to him she demanded, “What’s wrong with wearing jewelry anyway?”

She expected the pastor to prove to her what was wrong with jewelry, but he responded, “There are many things that are more important than the question of jewelry.”

Surprised, she asked, “Such as?”

“Well, our relationship with the Lord,” he replied. “Do you think that if Jesus returned today you would have the assurance of eternal life?”

She paused for a moment and said, “No, I wouldn’t.”

Within fifteen minutes, there on the bus, the pastor shared with her the good news of God’s plan of salvation and led this young girl to a new commitment to Christ. Tears flowed down her cheeks as she accepted Christ as her personal Savior and made peace with Him.

Then she told her story. She said she had gone to church one Sabbath morning wearing makeup. In front of the church an elderly lady stopped in front of her and said, “Oh, my dear, did you forget to wash your face this morning?” The girl turned around, went home and decided never to set foot in an Adventist church again.

“But I’m going home now,” she told the pastor. “I’m going to patch things up with my mother and I’m going back to the church. But oh!” she added, “I wish you could come on Sabbath and tell our church what you have told me today.”

What can we learn from this? Could this happen in your church? The chances of it happening are less likely if your Sabbath School members are in small groups, such as Sabbath School Action Units, where they are not just listening week after week to an all-knowing lecturer, but where they are interacting and thus learning to understand, love, and care for one another and how to reach out to others.

The pastor just mentioned told the writer of this leaflet, “I am convinced that if we would lead our young people into a true relationship with Christ instead of always trying to deal only with the symptoms, then ninety percent of our problems would be solved.” Is he correct? Rules and standards are important, but if a tree is bearing bad fruit, can we cause it to bear good fruit by cutting off its branches? Of course not. Evidently, many of our “saints” with many years in the church, who are not in the habit of witnessing and who would say, “Did you forget to wash your face this morning?” do not have a living connection with the God who transforms lives from the inside out as they behold Him and respond to His love.<sup>1</sup> Could a first step in reclaiming the missing be to help them, as well as our young people, to commit their lives to Jesus and to know Him daily instead of cutting off branches? But before we deal with solutions we must acknowledge that far too many are leaving. We must also examine the reasons they leave and why we should be deeply concerned.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Calvin Smith, Action Magazine, General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, April, 1994, p. 3.