---
title: Get the Charge of Your Life
date: 17/08/2025
---

_Rise Rafferty_

> <p></p>
> Draw near to God and He will draw near to you. James 4:8, NKJV.

Sunlight electrically charges air molecules and makes them negative. But the problem for most of us is that we end up breathing too much positively charged air from heating and air-conditioning. This can result in headache, nasal obstruction, fatigue, and dizziness. In addition, it's been shown to depress the adrenal glands and diminish secretion of hormones essential in dealing with stress. That's why, for your well-being, it's so important to exercise in the sunshine and take deep breaths of that negative-ion-charged fresh air.

Isn't it interesting that before scientists discovered this information about some of the harmful effects of breathing stale air, Ellen White wrote, "Air is the free blessing of heaven, calculated to electrify the whole system. . . . The effects produced by living in close, ill-ventilated rooms are these: The system becomes weak and unhealthy, the circulation is depressed, the blood moves sluggishly through the system because it is not purified and vitalized by the pure, invigorating air of heaven. The mind becomes depressed and gloomy, while the whole system is enervated; and fevers and other acute diseases are liable to be generated" (Testimonies, vol. 1, pp. 701-703).

A similar thing applies to our spiritual lives. Ellen White says: "The influence of every man's thoughts and actions surrounds him like an invisible atmosphere, which is unconsciously breathed in by all who come in contact with him" (ibid., vol. 5, p. 111). That's scary, since we don't want our negative attitudes affecting others. But there is a remedy. "When the Lord sees the determined effort made to retain only pure thoughts, He will attract the mind, like the magnet, and purify the thoughts, and enable them to cleanse themselves from every secret sin" (A Solemn Appeal, p. 76).

So let God's Holy Spirit magnet draw you, and you will get the charge that can change your life!

> <callout></callout>
> God is the greatest source of spiritual power in the world. What are you doing to get plugged in to His infinite supply?

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._