---
title: In the Beginning
type: story
---

In the beginning, before there were white fluffy clouds or fuzzy caterpillars, there was God. Before there were twinkly stars or an ocean so blue, God created a special place for you. There was so much He would do. In (count with your fingers to six) one... two...three...four...five...six days the world would be perfect and new. God would fill the earth with colors to see: red, yellow, blue, and green. There would be new sounds to hear and tasty food to eat. Best of all would be the friends He would meet. God is so good, and everything He made for us is good.

In the beginning the earth was covered in water. There were no playful dolphins or great big whales; no boats ready to set sail. God wanted to create a beautiful place for you to be, with animals big (arms out wide) and small (hands close together) for you to see. He wanted to make people like you (point to child) and like me (point to self). So He did. God is so good, and everything He made for us is good.  In the beginning the earth was empty and dark. There were no twinkling stars (wiggle fingers) shining in the darkness; no owls hooting from their nests (hoo-hoo). God wanted to create a wonderful world for you to see, filled with light for both day and night. He wanted to make a special day for time with you. So He did. God is so good, and everything He made for us is good.

In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth (point up and down) for you and me. God filled the earth with grassy fields and honeybees and tumbling streams and crashing seas because He loves you. He made the heavens with the sun and moon to see. God wanted to create all this for you and me. What would God make on Day 1? (Point to the circle with number 1.) God is so good, and everything He made for us is good.