---
title: Stewardship
---

We are God’s stewards, entrusted by Him with time and opportuni- ties, abilities and possessions, and the blessings of the earth and its resources. We are responsible to Him for their proper use. We acknowledge God’s ownership by faithful service to Him and our fellow human beings, and by returning tithes and giving offerings for the proclamation of His gospel and the support and growth of His church. Genesis 1:26-28; 2:15; 1 Chronicles 29:14; Haggai 1:3-11; Malachi 3:8-12; Matthew 23:23; 2 Corinthians 8:1-15; Romans 15:26, 27.

Withholding tithes and offerings is referred to in the Bible as robbing God. The tithe is holy to the Lord—it belongs to Him. Therefore, returning tithe is not a matter of generosity, but honesty. The tithe, which means “tenth,” is to be calculated on our increase. In other words, 10 percent of our gross income belongs to God and should be returned to Him. The tithe was sacredly guarded in biblical times to support the Levites, and should be used exclusively today to support the work of the gospel ministry. Malachi 3:8-10; Leviticus 27:30; Deuteronomy 14:22; Numbers 18:21; 1 Corinthians 9:13, 14.

In Old Testament times the tithe was placed in a storehouse and then distributed to the Levites. Similarly, Seventh-day Adventist churches send their tithe to a local conference, which in turn uses it for the support of ministers, Bible workers, and other gospel ministry functions. Ministers essentially receive the same base salary, unaf- fected by the amount of tithe returned by the churches they pastor. Malachi 3:8-10; Nehemiah 10:38.

Offerings represent amounts above and beyond the 10 percent tithe, to be given cheerfully as a person is able. Systematic giving of some percentage of gross income is recommended. Local church operating expenses require support from offerings, since the tithe is used to support those employed in gospel ministry. Deuteronomy 16:17; 1 Corinthians 16:2; 2 Corinthians 9:6, 7.

As good stewards we should refrain from gambling, which is not only a poor investment of God’s resources, but can also be highly addictive. Ecclesiastes 5:10; Luke 12:15; 16:13; 1 Timothy 6:10; Proverbs 13:11; 20:21; 28:20.

**My Commitment**: _By the grace of God I will support the mission of the church by returning a faithful tithe and giving freewill offerings. I choose also to refrain from the addictive and wasteful practice of gambling._