---
title: Because Of What Lies Ahead
date: 28/06/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “But He was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement for our peace was upon Him, and by His stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned, every one, to his own way; and the Lord has laid on Him the iniquity of us all.” –Isaiah 53:5, 6

One of the chapters of the Bible that depicts the work of Jesus is Isaiah 53. He is depicted as a suffering servant. The question is, what is it that made our Lord and Savior endure all that He went through with no murmuring? In The Acts of the Apostles we read, “What sustained the Son of God during His life of toil and sacrifice? He saw the results of the travail of His soul and was satisfied. Looking into eternity, He beheld the happiness of those who through His humiliation had received pardon and everlasting life. His ear caught the shout of the redeemed. He heard the ransomed ones singing the song of Moses and the Lamb” (Ellen G. White, p. 601).

The joy of seeing the salvation of those for whom He suffered motivated our Lord and our Example to endure all He went through. Brothers and sisters, in anticipation, He heard your shout of victory. He heard you and me singing the song of Moses and the Lamb.

Following our Master’s example, let us endure hardships and sacrificially give to the cause of God for the sake of those who will be saved by our acts of generosity. There is joy awaiting us when we reach our heavenly home. Imagine the shout of someone saved because of your giving. Picture someone singing the song of Moses and the Lamb because you faithfully returned tithe and offerings.

### Appeal

Let us give with the future in mind. When Christ is at the center of all we do, we can rejoice, knowing that our giving is making a difference.