---
title: Offerings Show My Love For People
date: 14/06/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “I will pay my vows to the Lord now in the presence of all His people, in the courts of the Lord’s house, in the midst of you, O Jerusalem.” –Psalm 116:18, 19

Jesus gave the two greatest commandments in Matthew 22:36–40. The second greatest commandment reads, “‘Love your neighbor as yourself’.” We show love for our neighbors in several ways. One of the ways to show our love for them is by being there for them when they are going through difficult life challenges—visitingthem in the hospital when they are sick, or giving them a helping hand when they are in need.

Ellen G. White indicates another means for us to show our love for others. She writes, “The more we invest in the cause of God to aid in the salvation of souls, the closer to our hearts will they be brought” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 3, p. 405).

Our love for our neighbors should not only manifest in meeting their physical needs; we should also invest in their salvation. When we return our tithe and offerings, we’re investing in God’s work. By giving to the cause of God, our hearts will be drawn closer to the men, women, boys, and girls for whom Jesus died. As stated by Ellen G. White, “If you love God supremely, and your neighbor as yourself, we believe you will give tangible proofs of the same in freewill offerings for our mission work” (The Review and Herald, January 8, 1889).

### Appeal

I invite you to show your love for God and your neighbors by giving liberally for the salvation of your brothers and sisters who are in search of the truth.