---
title: The Everlasting Gospel
---

The first angel’s message begins with the “everlasting” gospel. Or the “eternal” gospel. The eternal good news. However often the word “gospel” itself appears in the Bible, this is the only time it was modified with the word “everlasting” (aiōnios), a term that John uses in other places with the word “life”; that is, in reference to the “eternal life” that we can have in Jesus. Such as: “Most assuredly, I say to you, he who believes in Me has everlasting life” (John 6:47).

The gospel is eternal because it was formulated by God in eternity, and it remained hidden until made manifest in Jesus. In fact, the gospel, the hope of eternal life for us all, had been formulated even before the world began. Look at these words, from Paul: “Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ, just as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before Him in love” (Ephesians 1:3, 4).

Chosen in Him before the foundation of the world! Before we even existed, God’s plan was for all of us to have salvation in Him. This isn’t predestination, the idea that God chooses some to be saved, some to be lost. No, everyone, every human being, was predestined for salvation. God’s plan, even before the world began, was for everyone to have eternal life in His Son.

“But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honour; that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man” (Hebrews 2:9, KJV). Why die for every “man” if it weren’t planned for every man to be saved, even if every man in the end won’t be?

“All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned everyone to his own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all” (Isaiah 53:6, KJV). Why take the iniquity “of us all” if the intention wasn’t to pardon “us all”? People not availing themselves of the provision doesn’t limit the provision any more than people starving themselves to death in a rich marketplace means there’s not enough food.

It goes back to the idea, stressed earlier, that we had originally been created for eternal life. From the start we were to have lived forever. But even before God created this world, He knew what was going to happen; He knew that humanity would fall. And so, even before He had created us, He instituted the plan by which we all, every one of us, could be saved. That was the everlasting gospel.

“Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ to further the faith of God’s elect and their knowledge of the truth that leads to godliness—in the hope of eternal life, which God, who does not lie, promised before the beginning of time” (Titus 1:1, 2, NIV). Before the foundation of the world was one thing; Paul, though, pushes it back further: We were promised eternal life before the beginning of time. Of time? How interesting in light of modern science, which teaches that billions of years ago matter, energy, space, and time were created at once. Time itself had a beginning; it once did not exist. And, according to Paul, it was then—before its beginning, before time itself—that God promised us the hope of eternal life. Whenever exactly that was, who knows? We can be sure, though, that it was long ago. No wonder it’s called the everlasting gospel.

“Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers; but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot: Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you” (1 Peter 1:18-20, KJV).

Before the foundation of the world the promise of salvation was given because, before the foundation of the world, the plan of salvation was too. Before time itself the Godhead planned that Jesus, the Son of God, would shed His blood for the human race. No wonder Jesus is called “the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world” (Revelation 13:8). The plan of salvation was laid out before we needed it, in order that it would be there when we did. It was the warranty on our souls.

And it has been the same gospel, the same plan of salvation, from before time began to the gospel being proclaimed in the first angel’s message. There is only one gospel, and it first formulated in eternity past, and its fruits will last for eternity future. Paul himself stated, even warned, that “even if we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone preaches any other gospel to you than what you have received, let him be accursed” (Galatians 1:8, 9).

This gospel was first proclaimed to Adam and Eve in Eden (Genesis 3:15), after they fell and brought sin and death to our world. This same gospel was preached to Abraham. “And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel to Abraham beforehand, saying, ‘In you all the nations shall be blessed’” (Galatians 3:8; see also Genesis 22:18). It was the same gospel preached to ancient Israel amid their wilderness wanderings (Hebrews 4:2). This same gospel, this same message, was what heaven had preached to shepherds outside Bethlehem about the birth of Jesus: “I bring you good tidings of great joy which will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord” (Luke 2:10, 11). It was the same gospel that Jesus preached: “The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent, and believe in the gospel” (Mark 1:15). It was the same gospel that saved the thief on the cross, to whom Jesus had promised eternal life (Luke 23:43). And it was the same gospel that Jesus told the disciples to preach until the very end: “And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world as a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come” (Matthew 24:14). And it is the same gospel, the “everlasting gospel,” that the first angel proclaims to the world.

And the message, this eternal, everlasting message, is that salvation, the eternal life that we were originally supposed to have, is found only by faith in Jesus. Only by claiming, by faith, the perfect righteousness of Jesus, by leaning totally on His merits and not on ourselves or our good works, can we regain the eternal life that was supposed to have been ours from the start.

“Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God; who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began” (2 Timothy 1:8, 9, KJV).

If ever a text proved salvation by grace, and not by works, this must be it. If we were called to be saved before the world began, before time itself began, then salvation can’t be based on our works, because we were called in Him before we even existed in order to have any works! Being promised something before you existed, before you could possibly have done anything to deserve it—if that is not grace, what is?

Also, as we have seen, Jesus, the one who created all that had been made (John 1:1-3), “shrinks down” and becomes a human baby who grew into adulthood, who lived a sinless life, who then offered that life as a sacrifice for us. God Himself, dying for us? As if that weren’t enough to save us? We need our own works as well?

One Christian writer expressed it like this: “If you would gather together everything that is good and holy and noble and lovely in man and then present the subject to the angels of God as acting a part in the salvation of the human soul or in merit, the proposition would be rejected as treason. Standing in the presence of their Creator and looking upon the unsurpassed glory which enshrouds His person, they are looking upon the Lamb of God given from the foundation of the world to a life of humiliation, to be rejected of sinful men, to be despised, to be crucified. Who can measure the infinity of the sacrifice!” <sup>1</sup>

This, the “everlasting gospel,” is the foundation of the three angels’ messages, because without it, without the promise of eternal life, which is what the gospel is all about—what else matters? We’d be back to nothing more—than what? Than floating around as spores in the atmosphere or being lowered into a hole and becoming nothing but ashes and dust? Surely, after all we go through, all the toils and troubles and hassles of just getting by in life, to end like that, and forever, too, hardly seems worth it. Hardly makes sense at all.

It doesn’t make sense, because it was never the way that it was supposed to have been. Sin derailed everything; the gospel, the “everlasting gospel,” is God’s way of restoring normalcy, sanity, and life to a world suffused in the abnormality and insanity of death.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Faith and Works (Nashville: Southern Pub. Assn., 1979), p. 24.