---
title: Appendix A
---

### 2013 Nurture and Retention Recommendations

1\. The GC to have a dedicated Associate Secretary whose responsibilities are to monitor implementation of the global church strategic plan in general and in particular to monitor progress in the area of nurture, retention, discipleship, and reclamation; this Assoc. Secretary to be secretary of the GC Nurture & Retention Committee.

_This recommendation has been partially implemented_

2\. Each division and union to have a designated N&R coordinator and an N&R committee chaired by one of the officers and including the following departmental directors: Children’s Ministries, Education, Family Ministries, Ministerial, Sabbath School & Personal Ministries, Women’s Ministries and Youth Ministries.

Effectively four recommendations:

2a. Each division to have a designated Nurture & Retention coordinator

_Successfully implemented_

2b. Each division to have a Nurture & Retention Committee chaired by one of the officers and with departmental representation

_Uncertain: probably only partially implemented_

2c. Each union to have a designated Nurture & Retention coordinator

_No data: anecdotally this has been implemented by a few unions, but it mostly remains unimplemented_

2d. Each union to have a Nurture & Retention Committee

_No data: it’s possible this has not been implemented by any union; certainly, by very few_

3\. Each division to have an overall plan to improve the audited membership retention rate by x percent, the percentage to be selected by each division and then communicated to the General Conference.

_No data: possibly not implemented by any division_

4\. Each division and union to have and implement an active discipleship plan, along the lines of the “Growing Fruitful Disciples” model.

_Adopted as a KPI of the Reach the World 2015–2020 plan Unachieved. At the division level, implementation uncertain; there has been limited implementation at the union level, but no data are available_

5\. General Conference Departments, in collaboration with one another and consultation with division leaders, to create materials that meet expressed needs in the areas of nurture, retention and discipling, avoiding multiplicity of initiatives and approaches.

_Adopted as a KPI of the Reach the World 2015–2020 plan No data on implementation_

6\. Each division to hold conferences on nurture, retention and discipling: one involving administrators and academics (along the lines of the global summit), then further conferences sharing data and good practice with pastors and elders.

_Adopted as a KPI of the Reach the World 2015–2020 plan Some progress towards implementation: IAD, NSD, SSD, and TED held division-wide conferences—NSD annually; unions in IAD and TED (and perhaps elsewhere) have held conferences for pastors_

7\. Comprehensive, widespread and practical training in conflict resolution and reconciliation to be implemented throughout the worldwide Church.

_Adopted as a KPI of the Reach the World 2015–2020 plan No data on implementation; anecdotally: very few unions; possibly none_

8\. Approved membership software to be used in all fields to improve records of local church membership.

_Adopted as a KPI of the Reach the World 2015–2020 plan— but as “Widespread adoption of membership software” KPI achieved. Summit recommendation not yet achieved, but implementation taking place, gradually, throughout the world field_

9\. Specific training in nurture, retention and discipling to be part of all ministerial and theological education programs.

_No data; implemented by a few colleges on an ad hoc basis_

10\. A new section to be added to the Church Manual on discipleship at the local church level (and the Minister’s Manual and Elder’s Handbook subsequently to be amended appropriately).

_Successfully implemented! (Voted at 2015 GC Session)_

### Conclusions

Whatever recommendations are made by the 2019 Summit, they should include a reporting mechanism. As for many of the recommendations/goals, little or no data are available on implementation; but this reflects the fact that no reporting mechanism or responsibility was established.

_This review was presented at the 2019 Nurture and Retention Summit by Anthony Kent and David Trim with an analysis of what had been implemented._