---
title: A Notorious Student Is Baptized
date: 21/06/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “For with God nothing will be impossible.” –Luke 1:37

While Mundia was pursuing his BA degree in Theology at Solusi University in Zimbabwe, the late Dr. Cornelius Matandiko, a renowned evangelist and church leader, conducted a week of spiritual emphasis on campus. Mundia, accompanied by his wife, and their two young boys, sat in the back row of the church, a place reserved for parents with children.

Each evening, as they sat in church listening to the captivating message, there was a young man in front of them who consistently talked and laughed with his companions. Mundia realized that unless the young man changed his behavior, many people, including himself, would not benefit from the messages preached. This prompted Mundia to start praying for this young man. However, it seemed that the more he prayed, the more the young man intensified his disruptive behavior.

Before the week ended, during Dr. Matandiko’s appeal for attendees to accept Jesus through baptism, Mundia was surprised to see the troublesome young man stand up and walk to the front. Mundia wondered whether the young man was serious. The following day, the young man returned to his usual seat, but this time, he behaved differently. He sat quietly, listened attentively, and was one of the many who got baptized.

Our schools play a crucial role in introducing young people to Jesus. We need these schools everywhere, but establishing them requires substantial financial resources.

### Appeal

May we continue to generously give our percentage-based offerings—the Promise offerings—so that many more young people who come to study in our schools learn of Jesus Christ.