---
title: Protected By Robbers
date: 26/04/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “For the death that He died, He died to sin once for all; but the life that He lives, He lives to God. Likewise you also, reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus our Lord.” –Romans 6:10, 11

Pastor Driany (not his real name) was on his way to visit his members in the South West Malagasy Conference when he met five robbers. The area was well chosen by the robbers because it was sandy, bushy, and isolated. They knew that motorcyclists had no choice but to get off their motorcycles because of the sand.

On this fateful day, the robbers put a very big log across the road. Seeing the log, Pastor Driany knew something was wrong. He got off his motorcycle, and within seconds was surrounded by five robbers who demanded everything he had. He told them that he was a Seventh-day Adventist pastor going to visit his members, but that did not deter the robbers.

He then remembered the name of one of the church members, and asked if they knew him, though he doubted it because the member lived far away from where they were. However, the pastor was taken aback when one of the robbers intervened, instructing his colleagues, “Leave him alone. The person he mentioned saved my life. When somebody speared me, this man helped me.” Seeing that he was now safe, the pastor asked them if he could share some Bible verses with them, to which they agreed. Then the robbers offered to guarantee his safety for the remainder of the journey.

Sometime after that incident, Pastor Driany was surprised when a new convert asked him if he recognized him. The pastor admitted he did not. The man then inquired if he recalled meeting five robbers on his way to visiting his members. The pastor replied that he remembered the experience well. The man revealed that he was one of the five robbers and that he was ready to be baptized. The pastor thanked God that an encounter that was meant to hurt him became a means of saving somebody.

### Appeal

Brothers and sisters, the tithe and Promise offerings (percentage-based offerings) we give help sustain pastors around the world who spread the gospel at the risk of their lives. May we give generously so that many more people like that former robber may hear about Jesus.