---
title: A Bit of Context, Please
subtitle: Part Two
---

Revelation 13, like Revelation 12, continues the great controversy motif. Even without understanding the precise meaning of the symbols, one can see the dragon (Revelation 13:2, 4, 11), Satan, attempt to wreak havoc here on earth. The early verses, using imagery from Daniel 7 (again, more evidence of how the book of Revelation is heavily tied to the Old Testament), recount the history of church persecution through the Dark Ages.

However, a point worth remembering, especially amid the depiction of persecution and suffering that follows, is that by now in the great controversy, Satan (the dragon, the serpent) has already been beaten three times by Christ: defeated in heaven (Revelation 12:8), defeated at the cross (Colossians 2:15), and finally, defeated in his attempts to destroy Christ’s church, because a remnant of His people have survived (Revelation 12:17). In short, as long as one stays connected to Christ, one is always on the winning side in the great controversy.

But it doesn’t mean that times won’t be hard. Just as the early church over the centuries faced persecution, Revelation 13 talks about more persecution, future persecution on a worldwide scale. And if the COVID-19 pandemic has taught us anything, it’s about how quickly the whole world can be brought to heel, how the whole world can suddenly, dramatically, and in unexpected ways, change—and not for the good, either.

Revelation 13 depicts what’s coming like this: “All who dwell on the earth will worship him, whose names have not been written in the Book of Life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world. . . . He was granted power to give breath to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak and cause as many as would not worship the image of the beast to be killed. He causes all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and slave, to receive a mark on their right hand or on their foreheads, and that no one may buy or sell except one who has the mark or the name of the beast, or the number of his name” (Revelation 13:8-17).

Over the years all sorts of popular books and movies have come out about who these powers are and how all these events will be made manifest. Each book, each movie, however, tells a different story, with all sorts of wild speculation. If we put aside, for now, an attempt to explain what these verses, rich in Old Testament symbolism, mean, a few points come through that are important for understanding what is going on here and that can help us better understand the three angels’ messages.

First, as we have already seen, this persecution is worldwide. Which makes sense in that, as shown in Revelation 12, when Satan was cast to the earth, his attempts at deception were universal: “So the great dragon was cast out, that serpent of old, called the Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world; he was cast to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him” (verse 9). And again, not to belabor the point, after COVID-19 who can deny how the world can quickly be changed and brought into turmoil and trial? It would be the height of folly to deny that what is depicted here could happen, not after what “the whole world” has been facing since 2020.

Second, a key theme appears in these verses: worship. Five times (Revelation 13:4 [twice], 8, 12, 15) worship is shown to be a major factor behind the turmoil and conflict depicted in the last days. According to these verses, the dragon, Satan, will attempt to enforce a certain kind of worship upon the world. In one sense this shouldn’t be surprising, because, from the beginning of the great controversy, Satan has wanted to usurp the authority and place of God Himself. An Old Testament depiction of his attitude has been revealed in these verses: “For you have said in your heart: ‘I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God; I will also sit on the mount of the congregation on the farthest sides of the north; I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will be like the Most High’” (Isaiah 14:13, 14). This point, that about worship and whom people worship, becomes paramount in understanding the three angels’ messages.

Third, in stark contrast to God, who seeks worship and obedience only by love and the freedom inherent in love, the forces of evil will use violence, as well as economic pressure, to enforce worship. The texts says that they will “cause as many as would not worship the image of the beast to be killed” (Revelation 13:15), and that “no one may buy or sell” (verse 17) unless they conform.

In short, Revelation 12-13 provide the context for the three angels’ messages, which follow. Unfortunately, the context, that of worldwide religious persecution, is not a pretty one, not a hopeful one, in and of itself. However, the great news of the three angels’ messages is that they reveal where our hope is, where our promise is. And amid this coming time of confusion, turmoil, and persecution (in some ways the great controversy climaxing on the earth), the Lord offers everyone hope and promise, which, even now, before this persecution has arisen, we can all surely use, can’t we?

And though the context of the following verse is different, the sentiment behind them remains an eternal principle, one that each one of us can draw comfort from. “For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, says the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you a future and a hope” (Jeremiah 29:11). And the Lord has proved the truthfulness of that sentiment by the death of Jesus, which offers everyone who claims it “a future and a hope.” And that future, and that hope, are revealed in the three angels’ messages.