---
title: Holiday Gifts 
---

### We should remember to give back to God during this holiday season.

_Ellen G. White_

The holiday season is fast approaching with its interchange of gifts, and old and young are intently studying what they can bestow upon their friends as a token of affectionate remembrance. It is pleasant to receive a gift, however small, from those we love. It is an assurance that we are not forgotten, and seems to bind us to them a little closer.

#### Give to God Freely

Brethren and sisters, while you are devising gifts for one another, I would remind you of our heavenly Friend, lest you should be unmindful of His claims. Will He not be pleased if we show that we have not forgotten Him? Jesus, the Prince of Life, gave all to bring salvation within our reach. Oh, matchless love! He left His royal home, His high command, and stooped to share our poverty and shame, that we might be exalted to share His riches and His throne. His glorious perfection called forth the admiration of the angelic host; yet He, their adored Commander, came down to a world sunken in sin, that He might give us a perfect example in His life. . . .

It is through Christ that we receive every blessing. We may come to Him in our poverty and need, and He will listen to our petitions, and supply our every want. We are dependent upon Him every moment for grace and strength to maintain our integrity and to continue in His love. . . .

Shall not all these precious tokens of His love call forth a response from us in freewill offerings for His cause? Shall not our heavenly Benefactor share in the tokens of our gratitude and love? Come, brethren and sisters, come with your children, even the babes in your arms, and bring your offerings to God according to your ability. Make melody to Him in your hearts, and let His praise be upon your lips. Let us rejoice that our Saviour liveth to make intercession for us in the presence of Jehovah. As a people we have backslidden from God; let us return unto Him, and He will return unto us, and will heal all our backslidings. Let us, upon the coming Christmas and New Year’s festivals, not only make an offering to God of our means, but give ourselves unreservedly to Him, a living sacrifice.

From this time till the opening of the new year, let the theme of our thoughts be, “What shall I render unto the Lord for all his benefits toward me? I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows unto the Lord now in the presence of all his people.” You have taxed your inventive powers to prepare something that will surprise and gratify your friends. Let us in these last days of 1882, be as anxious, as earnest, as persevering, to render to God that which is due Him.

#### He deserves our Best Gifts

While our heavenly Father has crowned our lives with abundance to supply our temporal wants, His mercies have been abused because they were so full and free. Many forget that their obligations to God increase with the continuous manifestations of His love and care, and that all these call for acknowledgment from us in gifts and offerings to sustain the various branches of His work. Such have now a precious opportunity to redeem the past, and to show that God has the first place in their affections. Let not our best thoughts, our most earnest efforts, our most precious offerings, be given to earthly friends, while our Creator is neglected and forgotten. I speak to those who profess to be His dear children: What will you bring to God as a token of your love and gratitude? However small the offering, He will accept it, if it is the best you have to bring, and is given in love and sincerity of heart.

I feel sad as I think how many are so engrossed with thoughts of their friends and the gifts they are preparing for them that they will lose sight of their obligations to God. They will not seek to purify the soul temple from defilement that they may present to the Lord an offering in righteousness. During the past year, Satan has been making most earnest effort to sow discord and dissension among brethren. Now, as the old year is passing away and the new year coming in, is a good time for those who have cherished alienation and bitterness to make confession to one another. . . .

Here is work for every family and every church. Make haste, brethren and sisters, to improve the few remaining days of [this year] in setting your own hearts in order, and making every wrong right. Remember that we shall be forgiven only as we forgive. Let all enmity, dissension, and bitterness die with the old year. Let kindness and brotherly and sisterly affection revive in our hearts. We may open the new year with a clean record. How happy the thought! Let us draw near to God “with a true heart in full assurance of faith,” that the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, may keep our hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.

#### Let’s give Him our ALL!

I entreat the followers of Jesus not to let the precious opportunities of these coming days pass unimproved. Let not time and means be spent in preparing gifts which will benefit neither giver nor receiver. Remember that both your time and means are intrusted you of God, and that He will call you to account for the manner in which you employ His gifts. As Christians we cannot honor a custom which is not approved of Heaven. Let us, rather, seek to bring our hearts into a right condition, to free ourselves from pride, vanity, selfishness, and every other evil, and let mercy, truth, goodness, and love dwell therein. Let us remember the Lord our Creator, and bring to Him the offering of gratitude, and He will accept not only the gift but the giver. We may have such a spirit of love and joy in our hearts and homes as will make angels glad.

If all the means that will at this holiday season be expended to gratify unsanctified desire, or that will be needlessly invested, were brought as an offering of gratitude to God, to be used in advancing His cause, what an amount would flow into the treasury! Who are willing this year to deviate from their usual custom? How many will turn their thoughts and plans into a more elevated, heavenly channel? In this time of peril and backsliding from God because of selfish indulgence, will we not look from the human to the divine? Will we not show our remembrance of God and our gratitude for His continual mercies, and, above all, for the gift of His dear Son? Shall we not seek to conform to the Divine Model? to imitate Him who went about doing good? 

---

Seventh-day Adventist believe that Ellen G. White (1827-1915) exercised the biblical gift of prophecy during more than 70 years of public ministry. This excerpt was taken from Review and Herald, December 26, 1882.