---
title: Trapped
date: 27/06/2025
---

_David Beardsley_

> <p></p>
> And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus: for he shall save his people from their sins. Matt. 1:21.

Many years ago, during the summer, my brothers and I were building a house for our parents, I dug a deep hole for a septic tank. Unfortunately, it caved in and buried me up to my shoulders. There was absolutely nothing I could do to free myself. It was a helpless feeling. I was totally dependent on aid from my brothers to get out of my trapped condition. After some discussion and joking, they started to work and freed me.

Spiritually we are all trapped by the sin that is so much a part of our natures. Equally helpless to do anything to free ourselves from our predicament, we need outside assistance—a Saviour.

If we all have a Saviour, why do we so often remain trapped by our sin? Could it be because we don't really believe that anything can rescue us from it? Could it be because we believe that our Saviour will save us in our sins instead of from our sins?

While I was buried up to my shoulders, how satisfying would it have been to me to have my brothers tell me that they were sorry about my condition, but they could not get me out? How would I have felt if they had told me they would bring me food and drink and make me as comfortable as they could, but I would have to stay trapped by the sand?

That's how absurd it would be to believe that our Saviour would leave us trapped in our sins and still save us. He is a powerful deliverer. "God's ideal for His children is higher than the highest human thought can reach. 'Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.' The command is a promise. The plan of redemption contemplates our complete recovery from the power of Satan" (The Desire of Ages, p. 311).

How big is your God today? Can He overcome sin in your life?

> <callout></callout>
> Dear Lord, thank You for not leaving me trapped in my sins, and for providing a way for me to live a more vibrant life. Amen.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._