---
title: Agree to Agree
date: 18/05/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> Can two walk together, unless they are agreed? Amos 3:3 (NKJV) 

### Observation

There seemed to have been some competing voices among the Israelites telling them what to do. On the one hand, false prophets and political leaders leading them away from God - which many times resulted in exile and captivity. On the other hand were God’s prophets, leading the people back to God. The message of God’s true prophets was not always popular or gladly accepted, but Amos 3:1-8 shows that God and His prophets are in agreement and that God will show them what to say to His people. 66 books written by some 40 prophets and yet one common theme demonstrates that God was instrumental in inspiring all of His prophets.

### Application

Marriage counselors, backed by vast amounts of research say that couples preparing for marriage need to agree on at least four major areas: Religion, in-laws, parenting, and money. There are couples who believe that love is all they need and that love can overlook any differences. While that is a more romantic way of looking at things, in a relationship which hopes to establish the basis for a lifetime together romantic love is not enough and neither can it replace the similarities among the partners.

Some have the opinion that “Opposites Attract.” While two people do not have to agree on absolutely everything, and we all will still have individual tastes, likes, and dislikes, it is more important to look for those things with which we can agree, particularly in the major areas mentioned above.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, bless me and my (future) spouse that we may treasure those things we have in common, especially our faith in You.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._