---
title: Let Go and Let God
date: 04/24/2025
---

_Pamela Consuegra, PhD_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> "Casting all your care upon Him, for He cares for you." (1 Peter 5:7 NKJV)

### Observation

**_care_**—“anxiety? The advantage flowing from _humbling ourselves under God’s hand_ (1 Pe 5:6) is confident reliance on His goodness. Exemption from care goes along with humble submission to God.

**_careth for you_**—literally “_respecting_ you.” Care is a burden which faith casts off the man on his God. Compare Ps 22:10; 37:5; 55:22, to which Peter alludes; Lu 12:22, 37; Php 4:6.

**_careth_**—not so strong a _Greek_ word as the previous _Greek_ “anxiety.” [Jamieson, R., Fausset, A. R., & Brown, D. (1997). _Commentary Critical and Explanatory on the Whole Bible_ (1 Pe 5:7). Oak Harbor, WA: Logos Research Systems, Inc.]

### Application

Do you have those days when the challenges of parenting seem too big to bear? Every day is not filled with hugs, teddy bears, and cuddles. There are days that are not how we envisioned- screaming, sibling rivalry, grumbling, spilled milk, dirty diapers, doctor appointments and sick kids. And, all of this must somehow fit into an already packed calendar.

Even on those days when you feel that you are dealing with all of the parenting challenges alone, the good news is that you are not alone. Your Heavenly Father walks beside you. He sees the messes made. He hears the crying toddler. He knows the exact number of times that you have had to wipe runny noses, change diapers, and pick up toys left on the stairs. And, through it all, He promises to be with you. Yes, He is with you as you sit in the darkened nursery and try to rock a crying baby to sleep. He waits with you in the emergency room at the hospital while your child is burning with fever.

You do not walk alone. No matter how dark the night or strong the storm, you have a forever companion. As you go throughout the day today, remember the words of our scriptural focus, "He cares for you." Cast those burdens and cares upon Him. He is willing and able to bear them for you.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Dear Lord, thank you for co-parenting with me. It is a joy to know that I will not face this day alone. I go forward knowing that You will walk beside me. Thank you for caring for me! In Jesus' name, Amen.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._