---
title: Sabbath Afternoon
---

#### Introduction

We have come to the end of our Steps to Discipleship plan. And yet, this is not the end. Instead, it is really only the beginning of a lifestyle. Seven weeks ago we accepted the challenge to dedicate 30-45 minutes a day in searching for a closer walk with God. He heard our prayers. Our time with Him has enriched our daily lives. Isn’t it time to follow this with a serious commitment to a discipleship lifestyle of daily living with Jesus? If this seven week plan has made a difference in your life, why not make it a lifestyle?

There are four practical steps that will help you transition from a seven week process to a discipleship lifestyle in strengthening your relationship with Christ.

#### Reaffirm Relationship

The **first** important step in this transition is to daily reaffirm your relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Three key factors will strengthen this reaffirmation:

- Daily choose to believe that Jesus is your Savior and that you have eternal life in Him.
- Daily choose to accept Jesus as Lord of your life, inviting Him to guide and control each area of your life.
- Daily choose to accept the reality of Jesus Christ dwelling in you by faith.

These three above choices were the focus of weeks 2-4 in our Steps to Discipleship process. It might be good to go back over the material in the participant’s manual for those three weeks as a way to review and strengthen those choices.

#### Daily Time With God

The **second** step in strengthening the transition to a discipleship lifestyle with Jesus is to continue the daily time with God in prayer and Bible study. This time with God is the primary source of your spiritual strength.

During the last seven weeks, you have developed the habit of daily time with God. This habit needs to be maintained and reinforced. If you do not set aside that daily time with God and build it into your schedule, you will lose the habit. Here are some practical suggestions for continuing this daily devotional time:

- Stick to your daily time with God. By now you have found that it is possible to have 30- 45 minutes with God each day as part of your regular routine. keep it up!
- Set personal goals for what you would like to accomplish or receive as a result of your daily devotional time. These can be as general or as detailed as you want to make them. Having a clear goal helps to reinforce the importance and value of your daily time with God. These goals can include knowledge, relationships, and areas of daily living.
- Go back through the Steps to Discipleship material. Several individuals have commented that they were unable to go as deeply into each subject as they wanted to. Going back through the same material again will help deepen your understanding of these subjects. You also do not need to try to cover everything in seven weeks. What is important is having the daily time with God in prayer and in His Word. It is Ok if you need to spend more than one day on a daily section.
- Develop a plan for your daily time with God. Without a plan, that time can deteriorate and lose its focus. (You will find a suggested process for developing your daily devotional plan on pages 118-121 of this material.)
- Make an appointment to meet with God each day. If it is helpful, even write the time with God into your daily schedule or calendar.

Remember, the power of this process is in God and His Word. Our time with Him will reward us with the rich dividends of continuing transformation into His likeness.

#### Share Your Experience

The **third** practical step in helping transition to a discipleship lifestyle is to start sharing what you are receiving from God. Ask God to give you the courage to share. Then let it happen naturally. Here are some practical pointers:

- Write out a short testimony of what God is doing in your life. You may want to start with how the last seven weeks are making a difference in your relationship with Him. (See the suggested process for this personal testimony on pages 122-123 in this material.)
- Ask God to lead you to people around you who need to hear about Him. Give Him permission to bring them into your life. Remember, He is the One who will give you wisdom as to what to share and how to do it.
- Identify specific people around you who do not know God or who might need to grow in their relationships with Him. Make a list of these individuals and begin praying specifically for them. Give God permission to bring them to you.
- Share what God is doing for you. Remember, it is not your job to convert someone else. The Holy Spirit will do that in His time and place. But He wants to use you to lift up Jesus and make Him real. The best way to do that is through telling your personal story.
Sharing what God is doing in your life is a natural part of your spiritual growth process. I know it is scary. Trust God to help it happen in your life.

#### Put It To Work

The **fourth** practical step in making the transition from a seven week process to a discipleship lifestyle is to get to work. Identify your spiritual gifts. Find your ministry. Put it to work in your life. Here are some ideas which might be helpful:

- Accept the fact that God has called you to ministry. This ministry is part of your reason for being where you are. Believe in your calling.
- Identify your spiritual gifts. Look for natural talents that coincide with your sense of God’s convictions and specific concerns He has placed on your mind. Talk this over with close friends around you. What potential do others see in you? Check with your pastor and take a Spiritual Gifts Inventory. Most important of all, make this an issue of prayer and listen to God. He will make your gifts clear. He never calls to ministry without equipping us for that ministry.
- Look for opportunities of ministry in your church and community. How can you serve God with the gifts and calling He has given you?
- Start using your spiritual gifts. Put them to work. Use them to God’s glory.

#### Developing A Plan

Having a personal plan for your devotional life is a powerful tool for bringing meaning into that devotional life. A plan simply serves as a map to guide you in your progress and growth. This personal plan needs to have the following elements:

- Clear goals or purpose. If you don’t know where you are going you will never get there.
- Specific time and place. Having the same time and place for your meeting with God helps make it easier to maintain a regular devotional life.
- Regular tools. Start with the Holy Habits which are easiest for you. Then expand to new skills and tools.

#### Developing A Plan

Here is a suggested worksheet to help you develop your devotional plan. Work through the questions and sections below to help you develop your plan.

Write your goals or objectives for your devotional life:

`1.`

`2.`

`3.`

Write down the best place and time for your daily time with God:

`Place:`

`Daily Time:`

`List the Holy Habits or spiritual disciplines that are easiest and most meaningful to you: (During the last seven weeks we have explored the following Holy Habits: Relational Bible Reading, Prayer, Holy Release, Practicing the Presence, Journaling, Meditation, Scripture Memorization.)`

`Which Holy Habits would you like to integrate into you time with God during the next month?`

`What are your favorite sections of Scripture?`

`What new areas of Scripture would you like to explore? (If you are just starting your devotional life, begin with the Gospels in the New Testament and the Psalms in the Old Testament.)`

`What areas of your life need to grow in your discipleship walk with God?`

`What key Bible verses would you like memorize?`