---
title: Calling for a Decision to Accept Jesus as Savior and Lord
---

Many people have considered themselves Christians for many years, but after they have studied the guide on salvation (Lesson #6 in Discover), it is appropriate to invite them to recommit their lives to Jesus as both Savior and Lord before the testing truths are studied. If this is the case, the visitor who leads in the prayer should include himself in the re-commitment.

If the student has never accepted Christ, then make a direct personal appeal:

“As you have seen clearly the tremendous love of Jesus for you, what He has done for you and that He offers you the free gift of eternal life, I’m sure you would like to reach out and accept it. Isn’t that right?

“Why don’t we kneel in prayer and you tell God of your decision.

“Let’s review what you would want to say and then you tell God in your own words. If you miss a major point I’ll insert a word or two to remind you and then I will close. OK? (If the person is too shy he/she can repeat after you)

“Dear God, I am a sinner who is supposed to die.

I thank you for sending Jesus, who died for me, purchased eternal life for me, and, wants to give me the gift of eternal life.

I want to reach out and accept the gift.

I am sorry for my sins. Please forgive me of all my sins. I want to turn away from sin completely.

I receive Jesus into my heart as Savior and I want to

make Him Lord and Master of my life.

Help me to live for Jesus until He comes.”

Close with a prayer of thanksgiving. Welcome him/her to the family of God, give a copy of Steps to Christ, and urge the person to make the commitment daily in an established daily devotional life.