---
title: Discipleship—Woman to Woman
---

_General Conference Women’s Ministries_

### Introduction

Bringing people to Jesus is something everyone can do—men, women, and children. The purpose of this seminar is to teach women how to disciple new believers. This seminar was originally written by Jean Sequira in 2003 and was updated by Bonita Shields in 2018. This seminar is part of Level 2 of the General Conference Women’s Ministries Leadership Certification program. The program was designed to train women globally in areas of leadership and has four levels to the program.

The seminar materials include:

- The presenter’s outline

- The PowerPoint presentation • Handout

- Activity sheets (for participants to use in the discipling process)

This seminar is somewhat unique in that, unlike other women’s ministries seminars, it has an outline format rather than a manuscript format. Please personalize it with your own life experiences and illustrations to help make it more meaningful for you and the participants.

The PowerPoint presentation and handouts are related to the seminar. However, the activity sheets are for the participants’ use in the actual discipling process. You should briefly review these activity sheets with the participants when presenting the seminar. The important thing is to ensure that the participants understand their role in the discipling process, and how to use the activity sheets.

For a fuller understanding of the discipling model referenced in this seminar, visit www.growingfruitfuldisciples.com.

This seminar was presented during the Nurture and Retention Summit in 2019 and submitted for this publication as a resource material by Heather-Dawn Small, the director of the General Conference Women’s Ministries Department.

### Discipling New Members

The following is included as the introduction to the handouts for this seminar.

**Say**: The purpose of this seminar is to help you learn how to disciple a new member. Included is a handout for use during the seminar, as well as activity sheets to use during the discipling process.

Discipling a new Christian is both a privilege and a responsibility that should be taken quite seriously. Dedicating your time and energy to help a new believer understand the “how” and “why” of being a Christian is a task that will take much time and prayer. Yet it is a labor of love that will be immensely rewarding to you and the recipient.

#### Opening Activity: “Yeshiva Experience” (20 minutes)

**Intro**: “Today I will be your rabbi, as best I can, and you will be my disciples, as best you can. As a first-century rabbi, I will give you no answers. I will only ask you questions.”

**Scenario**: “Someone you know quite well has just come to you and asked, ‘Will you disciple me for the next 18 months? I will go anywhere you say, do anything you suggest, and experience whatever you think would benefit me. Time and money are not constraints. Will you please be my spiritual mentor/discipler/guardian for the next 18 months?’”

Tell the class to assume there is a discipling compatibility between the two of them, and that, for this class assignment, they must respond with an enthusiastic “YES” to this person!

**Ask**: “Now what?”

- If someone suggests they start by praying about it, ask, “For what do you think you need to pray?” If they respond, “Wisdom,” then ask, “What kind of wisdom do you think you need?”

- If someone suggests they first get to know the person, ask, “What do you think you need to know about this person? What would you be looking for in their background?”

- If someone suggests they would teach the person how to study the Bible, ask, “How do you intend to accomplish that?”

- If someone suggests they teach the person how to pray, ask, “Why do we pray? What is the purpose of prayer? Why do so many of our prayers not even rise to the ceiling, let alone the heavens?”

**Say**: While most of us truly want to disciple another believer, unfortunately we don’t know how to go about it. As Doug Greenwold, author of the book _Making Disciples Jesus’ Way_, discovered when he took his Sunday School class through this exercise, few had any idea of how to go about it, and did not know how to address a person’s understanding of God, their habits, sins, etc., that they might still be carrying around from his or her past.

This doesn’t mean we have to know all the answers before we can disciple someone. Actually, it’s quite the opposite. Knowing what questions to ask is just as important as knowing the answers. But ultimately the most important aspect of discipling someone is walking alongside them to help them know, love, and serve God.

This seminar shares with you a discipling framework that shows processes we all go through in our growth as disciples and disciplers. It includes several objectives for each process, and offers resources to help you grow as a disciple and spiritual mentor. The Together Growing Fruitful Disciples framework and the Growing Disciples Inventory (GDI) at www.growingfruitfuldisciples.com will be valuable to you in your discipling of others.

Let’s begin!

### I. CONNECTING WITH GOD

_Objectives_

A. Develop a daily, dynamic, deepening relationship with Christ.

B. Develop an identity that is complete in Christ.

C. Develop habits for intentional spiritual growth.

Christian discipleship occurs in relationships. The number-one goal for a Christian is to abide in Him so that he or she can become more like Him—the source of life.

“The strongest argument in favor of the gospel is a loving and lovable Christian.”<sup>1</sup>

“There is no limit to the usefulness of one who, by putting self aside, makes room for the working of the Holy Spirit upon his heart, and lives a life wholly consecrated to God.”<sup>2</sup>

#### 1. Prayer

“Pray in the Spirit at all times and on every occasion. Stay alert and be persistent in your prayers for all believers everywhere” (Ephesians 6:18, NLT).

**Resource**: “The Privilege of Prayer,” _Steps to Christ_, pp. 93-104.

“Consecrate yourself to God in the morning; make this your very first work. Let your prayer be, ‘Take me, O Lord, as wholly Thine. I lay all my plans at Thy feet. Use me today in Thy service. Abide with me, and let all my work be wrought in Thee.’”<sup>3</sup>

#### 2. Bible Study

“All Scripture is God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting and training in righteousness” (2 Timothy 3:16, NIV).

**Resource**: _In Step With Jesus_ (New Members Bible Study Guide), www.instepwithjesus.org.

“Fill the whole heart with the words of God. They are the living water, quenching your burning thirst. They are the living bread from heaven. . . . ‘The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life.’ John 6:63.”<sup>4</sup>

#### 3. Writings of Ellen G. White

“During her lifetime she wrote more than 5,000 periodical articles and 40 books; but today, including compilations from her thousands of pages of manuscripts, more than 100 titles are available in English. . . . Her life-changing masterpiece on successful Christian living, Steps to Christ, has been published in more than 140 languages. . . . Seventh-day Adventists believe that Mrs. White was more than a gifted writer; they believe she was appointed by God as a special messenger to draw the world’s attention to the Holy Scriptures and help prepare people for Christ’s second advent”<sup>5</sup>

“The Lord has given a lesser light to lead men and women to the greater light. Oh, how much good would be accomplished if the books containing this light were read with a determination to carry out the principles they contain!”<sup>6</sup>

**Resource**: George R. Knight, _Meeting Ellen White_.

### II. Understanding God’s Plan

_Objectives_

A. Understand the consequences of the human fall from God’s original plan.

B. Understand that God forgives sin and heals brokenness.

C. Understand that Christ redeemed us from sin and now lives to restore us to physical, mental, and spiritual wholeness.

We learn from God—through His Word and other revelations of His character—what He intends us to be and do.

“And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God” (Romans 12:2, NKJV).

#### 1. Purpose of the Christian Lifestyle

The purpose of the Christian lifestyle is

- to understand more fully God’s character as revealed in Jesus (John 10:30).

- to embrace the forgiveness of God (1 John 1:9).

- to experience the abundant life that Christ came to give/restore (John 10:10).

- to be Christ’s ambassadors, participating in His work of reconciliation (2 Corinthians 5:19, 20).

- to prepare God’s people for works of service (Romans 12:1).

- to build up the body of Christ (Ephesians 4:11-13).

- to reach unity in faith and knowledge (Ephesians 4:11-13).

- to become mature Christians (Ephesians 4:11-13).

**READING**: It might be good to allow the women to read a few selected Scripture passages from this section for the group.

Throughout Scripture—especially the New Testament—preaching the gospel, forgiveness, and physical healing went hand in hand (see Matthew 4:23; 8:16; 9:1-8 for a few examples). This is an example of the wholistic nature of our being: our minds and spirits affect our bodies, and our bodies impact our minds and our spirits. When Jesus healed people, He didn’t just heal one element of their condition. For wholeness to take place, all elements of our being must be addressed.

“Who forgives all your iniquities, who heals all your diseases” (Psalm 103:3, NKJV).

#### 2. The Body Temple

“Don’t you realize that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, who lives in you and was given to you by God? You do not belong to yourself, for God bought you with a high price. So you must honor God with your body” (1 Corinthians 6:19, 20, NLT; see also 2 Corinthinas 6:16).

How we care for our bodies affects our ability to think clearly, work effectively, and relate to others in the most loving manner; it reflects the value we place on ourselves as temples of the Holy Spirit.

**The Eight Laws of Life and Health**

1. Nutrition: I will eat the right food at the right time in the right amount.

2. Exercise: I will work and exercise.

3. Water: I will be clean and will drink pure water.

4. Sunshine: I will enjoy sunshine.

5. Temperance: I will not take anything harmful into my body.

6. Air: I will breathe deeply and stand erect.

7. Rest: I will rest and get enough sleep.

8. Trust: I will trust and obey God for strength and health.

Being the temple of the Holy Spirit informs us not only what we put into our bodies, but what we do with our time, talents, possessions, money, and health, which are all gifts from God.

**Resource**: Ellen G. White, _The Ministry of Healing_ Vibrant Life, www.vibrantlife.com

### III. Serving In God’s Mission

_Objectives_

A. Look for physical, mental, social, and spiritual needs in the local community.

B. Serve in one or more ministries in the local church.

C. Share your story of your personal relationship with Jesus with community members, family, friends, and coworkers.

In response to God’s love, His followers minister to others by participating in His mission of revelation, reconciliation, and restoration.

“God might have committed the message of the gospel, and all the work of loving ministry, to the heavenly angels. . . . But in His infinite love He chose to make us co-workers with Himself, with Christ and the angels, that we might share the blessing, the joy, the spiritual uplifting, which results from this unselfish ministry.”<sup>7</sup>

In Matthew 5 Jesus told His followers:

**“YOU are the salt of the earth” (verse 13, NKJV)**

| ATTRIBUTE: | SPIRITUAL APPLICATION: |
| --- | --- |
| Makes thirsty | Needs Living Water |
| Preserves | Keep until Christ comes |
| Flavors | “Taste and see that the Lord is good (Psalm 34:8, NKJV) |

**“YOU are the light of the world” (verse 14, NKJV)**

| ATTRIBUTE: | SPIRITUAL APPLICATION: |
| --- | --- |
| Shines brightly | “Keep your lamps burning, like servants waiting for their Master” (Luke 12:35, NIV). |
| Attracts | “Shine. . . , that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven” (Matthew 5:16, NIV). |
| Guides | “I have made you a light for the Gentiles. . . . Bring salvation to the ends of the earth” (Acts 13:47, NIV). |

**Discussion**: Ask the participants to share other attributes or spiritual applications that they may have thought of.

**Resource**: Go to www.sabbathschoolpersonalministries.org/acs-resources to request the Adventist Community Services leaflet/handbook, which is an introductory tool for creating an organized response to the needs in your community.

“And let us not neglect our meeting together, as some people do, but encourage one another, especially now that the day of his return is drawing near” (Hebrews 10:25, NLT).

“Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I do not want you to be ignorant. . . . There are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit. There are differences of ministries, but the same Lord. . . . But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually as He wills” (1 Corinthians 12:1-11, NKJV).

By using your spiritual gifts in ministry in the local church, you will:

- involve others in ministry.

- bring members into fellowship.

- help the Christian community grow.

- strengthen the body of Christ.

**Resource**: _Connections_ (Implementing Spiritual Gifts in the Church)

“If you are Christ’s follower, He sends in you a letter to the family, the village, the street, where you live. Jesus, dwelling in you, desires to speak to the hearts of those who are not acquainted with Him.”<sup>8</sup>

**Small Group Activity**: Divide participants into groups of no more than three or four. Give each person the “Sharing My Story” activity sheet. Give them a few minutes to look it over. Then ask each person to share with their small group (if they feel comfortable doing so) their answer to any one question from any section on the sheet.

Just like the woman at the well in John 4, we are called to share with others our encounter with Jesus. Though we all have the same God, no two stories are the same. Every individual has a life distinct from all others. What may touch someone from your life may not touch a person from my story, and vice versa. And our confession of His faithfulness is heaven’s chosen agency for revealing Christ to the world.

**Resource**: “Sharing My Story” activity sheet

### IV. Living in Community

It is within the body of Christ that we are discipled and equipped to disciple others.

“Dear brothers and sisters, I close my letter with these last words: Be joyful. Grow to maturity. Encourage each other. Live in harmony and peace. Then the God of love and peace will be with you” (2 Corinthians 13:11, NLT).

New members may _join_ our church, but unless they are cared for, fed, and nurtured, they will not _stay_ in the church.

Caring about our congregation is an important aspect of evangelism. We do not want to bring in new members by the front door only to have them leave by the back door.

Why do members not become active when they join a church? (See the resource below for current statistics on the reasons people leave the church.)

- Perceived hypocrisy in other church members

- Conflict within their local church and with other members

- Marital difficulties (including an unbelieving spouse)

- Lack of friends

- Burnout from activity in a former church

We must walk alongside other new members to support, nurture, and strengthen them in love. Assimilation and spiritual growth do not happen automatically. They must be intentional.

**Resource**: “Nurture and Retention Summit,” www.adventistarchives.com.

#### Help One Another Know, Love, and Serve God

1. Establish a process/program to help new members understand what it means to be part of your community. (Some churches have developed new member orientations.)

a. Explain the structure of your church.

b. Discuss the importance of giving our time for service.

c. Explain the privilege and responsibility of tithes and offerings.

d. Express the need for new members to choose a small group of their preference within the first three months of their arrival. Groups can be formed according to:

i. Bible study

ii. Place in life (single, married, collegiate, etc.)

iii. Service tasks, such as beautifying the church grounds, hospitality for a new member class, repair and maintenance of church property, etc.

2. Allow new members to give a testimony during church time, so the congregation can get to know them.

3. Align each new member with a spiritual mentor/discipler/guardian. Baptism is an ideal time for this relationship to commence. These spiritual companions will:

a. meet regularly with the new member to pray for and with each other, celebrate each other’s joys and sorrows, assist each other through challenging times, and help them retain relationships even when conflict occurs.

b. help the new member to study God’s Word, apply biblical principles to their lives, and discern spiritual truth in a balanced manner.

c. hold each other accountable to one another for growth toward wholeness in Christ, which involves:

i. acknowledging our brokenness and coming to God for healing.

ii. confessing our faults to trusted believers for the purpose of healing.

iii. being open to caring questions and suggestions when our behaviors are damaging to us and/or to others.

d. help each other discern where God is working in his/her life. support each other in the use of our spiritual gifts to fulfill God’s mission.

4. Share ways for them to disciple within their families.

a. Encourage the father in his role as priest of the family.

b. Have family worship in the morning and/or in the evening.

c. Share a bedtime prayer with your children, assuring them that angels are watching over them.

d. Choose a ministry in which the entire family can work together in a spirit of servanthood.

e. Prepare an agape feast on a Friday evening, eating fresh fruits and whole-grain bread. Wash each other’s feet in a spirit of forgiveness and humility.

“All the believers devoted themselves to the apostles’ teaching, and to fellowship, and to sharing in meals (including the Lord’s Supper), and to prayer.

“A deep sense of awe came over them all, and the apostles performed many miraculous signs and wonders. And all the believers met together in one place and shared everything they had. They sold their property and possessions and shared the money with those in need. They worshiped together at the Temple each day, met in homes for the Lord’s Supper, and shared their meals with great joy and generosity—all the while praising God and enjoying the goodwill of all the people. And each day the Lord added to their fellowship those who were being saved” (Acts 2:42-47, NLT).

**Resources**:

- “Spiritual Mentor Commitment” activity sheet

- Together Growing Fruitful Disciples Framework and Spiritual Growth Inventory, www.growingfruitfuldisciples.com

- www.indisciple.org (to access free materials for parents to mentor their children)

**Endnotes:**

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Ministry of Healing_ (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1905), p. 470.

<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1898, 1940), pp. 250, 251.

<sup>3</sup> Ellen G. White, _Steps to Christ_ (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1956), p. 70.

<sup>4</sup> Ibid., p. 80.

<sup>5</sup> http://www.whiteestate.org/about/egwbio.asp.

<sup>6</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Colporteur Ministry_ (Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1953), p. 125.

<sup>7</sup> E. G. White, _Steps to Christ_, p. 79.

<sup>8</sup> Ibid., p. 115.