---
title: Always Burning
date: 07/01/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> (Exo 27:20-21 NKJV) "And you shall command the children of Israel that they bring you pure oil of pressed olives for the light, to cause the lamp to burn continually. {21} "In the tabernacle of meeting, outside the veil which is before the Testimony, Aaron and his sons shall tend it from evening until morning before the LORD. It shall be a statute forever to their generations on behalf of the children of Israel.

### Observation

The Levites had the responsibility for the care and maintenance of the sanctuary, including the seven-branch lampstand which light was to be kept always burning. To that effect, the priest would go in and replenish the oil and the wicks and ensure that its fire would never go out. After the destruction of the temple, the Jewish people found some oil for the lamps and immediately got the light going again while at the same time preparing the special oil to continue the shining of its light and hoping the oil they had found would last until a new batch would be ready. According to their story, the fire lasted long enough, nine days; the celebration was great and indeed gave way to the beginning of the annual commemoration of that event through the festival of Hanukkah.

### Application

It is important that in marriage and in the home the light always be burning. This light can take on different forms:

1. The light of God must be burning at home by having daily devotional time, Bible study and prayer.

2. The light of love must be burning daily by practicing its manifestations as explained by Paul in 1 Corinthians 13.

3. The light of kindness and patience must burn daily as we experience at times what others do to us, whether willingly or carelessly.

4. The light of romance must be burning daily as we look for ways to show our spouse through words and actions how much we love them and how much we care for them.

5. The light of forgiveness must burn daily to get rid of the darkness of resentment and hatred.

Let’s keep our light burning at home and in our relationship so others may see it and find hope for their own families.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father, help us to keep the light bright and burning that we, our families, our spouse, our children, may have a brighter life and that others may also be helped remove the darkness in their lives and the darkness in this world.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._