---
title: Better Than Wine
date: 30/07/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> "How beautiful is your love, my sister, my bride! How much better is your love than wine, And the fragrance of your oils Than all kinds of spices! Song of Songs 4:10 (NASB)

### Observation

Both bride and groom describe their lover’s beauty with exuberant praise (vv. 1–15; 5:10–16; 6:4–10; 7:1–9), similar to the praise songs in modern rural Syrian weddings. The mutual praises present dynamic strength and movement and often refer to moral qualities of the lovers. [Andrews Study Bible Notes. 2010 (J. L. Dybdahl, Ed.). Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press.]

The word rendered love was used for physical expressions of romantic love. The verse might be more accurately translated, “How delightful are your kisses. How much more pleasing are your caresses than wine.” Her physical expressions of love had a more refreshing and intoxicating effect on him than wine, just as his expressions had earlier affected her. Even her perfume added to the excitement of their love. The senses of sight, touch, smell, and sound were involved in their love-making. [Walvoord, J. F., Zuck, R. B., & Dallas Theological Seminary. (1985). The Bible Knowledge Commentary: An Exposition of the Scriptures. Wheaton, IL: Victor Books.]

### Application

Several actions and attitudes made the relationship between the groom and the bride in the Song of Solomon special and vibrant.

1. They compliment each other, particularly each others looks or appearance. Over and over you find detailed descriptions of each others body in ways that flatter the other. We all need to hear those words, at least from time to time. Compliment your spouse on the way they look, what you like about their body, when they wear something you like, when they take care of themselves, the way the do their hair, or when they shave. Remind yourself, and your spouse, of those things about them that made you fall in love with them and which you still love about them.

2. This couple understood how pleasant it is the smell of the person you love. Because we are very sensitive to smell, we should practice good hygiene, shower regularly, brush your teeth, go to the dentist for regular cleaning. Some people enjoy the fragrances of perfumes, colognes, after shave lotions, etc. If you do, let your partner know that you like the fragrance they’re wearing. And if your partner tells you they like a specific fragrance you wear then wear it often, particularly for special occasions.

3. They also expressed their love in physical ways. The word “love” evidently refers to physical touch. The caress of a loving spouse, writes Solomon, has the pleasant, even intoxicating effect that alcohol provides those who drink it. Pleasant touch gives you a high of sorts, a healthy, passionate feeling of closeness to your spouse. Practice regular touch through hugs, caressing your spouse when you’re sitting together and, of course, in bed.

Begin to practice at least one of these three regularly; when you do so you will be showing your spouse, in tangible ways, how much you love them as the one God put in your life.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, help us to express our love for each other in physical and verbal ways so that we may maintain a strong, healthy, and mutually satisfying relationship for the rest of our lives.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._