---
title: Rest
subtitle: Week 8
---

Parenting is both joyful and challenging all at once! How do we rest in God in those challenging moments and days?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

Describe a situation in which you experienced extreme exhaustion.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

Weariness takes many forms: physical, emotional, social, mental, and spiritual. All are depleting.

- What are your favorite go-to Bible verses that encourage you when you are struggling?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
What phrases below give you special encouragement?
- **Matthew 11:28–30**: “Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For My yoke is easy and My burden is light.”
- **Psalm 116:1, 2**: “I love the Lord, because He has heard My voice and my supplications. Because He has inclined His ear to me, therefore I will call upon Him as long as I live.”
- **1 John 4:4**: “You are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because He who is in you is greater than he who is in the world.”
- **Psalm 56:11**: “In God I have put my trust; I will not be afraid. What can man do to me?”
- **Psalm 37:7**: “Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for Him; do not fret.”

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect

Silently read the following passage and highlight the ideas that are most meaningful to you. Take note of what comforts you, encourages you, or surprises you. What questions arise for you?

> “Keep your wants, your joys, your sorrows, your cares, and your fears before God. You cannot burden Him; you cannot weary Him. He who numbers the hairs of your head is not indifferent to the wants of His children. . . . His heart of love is touched by our sorrows and even by our utterances of them. Take to Him everything that perplexes the mind. Nothing is too great for Him to bear, for He holds up worlds, He rules over all the affairs of the universe. Nothing that in any way concerns our peace is too small for Him to notice. There is no chapter in our experience too dark for Him to read; there is no perplexity too difficult for Him to unravel. . . . ‘He heals the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds.’ Psalm 147:3. The relations between God and each soul are as distinct and full as though there were not another soul upon the earth to share His watch-care, not another soul for whom He gave His beloved Son” (Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, p. 100).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

Take some time today (if possible) to find a private place and give to God the emotions you know have been recently dominating your life, knowing “you cannot burden Him” or “weary Him.”

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-01-bb-pth/01/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Talk to God about your worries, anxieties,\
and concerns that you have for yourself or your child.\
Ask Him to give you peace, rest, strength, and wisdom\
as you navigate parenthood and life in general.\
Claim some of His promises as part of your prayer.