---
title: Cross-Cultural Disciple Making
---

_Gorden R. Doss, Ph.D._

Today I am aware that I am “preaching to the choir,” because we all agree on the need to enhance the nurture and retention of new church members. David Trim has spoken powerfully about the grief he feels over the high attrition rate of our members. Cheryl Doss, Oscar Osindo, and others have added very helpful insights. Some have offered complete packages describing new approaches. My approach will be to offer a few “bricks,” or concepts, that can be built into “house” of Adventist mission.*

Possibly the first and most important step in decreasing membership attrition and enhancing nurture is to clarify the goal or measure of success in mission. Car dealers define success as selling cars and mountain climbers define it as reaching the top of the mountain, but what does it mean to succeed in mission? In Christ’s method, making disciples is the goal. His Great Commission makes that clear (Matthew 28:19, 20).

Jesus mingled, built relationships, attracted people to follow Him, and then invested His entire energies in disciple-making. People did not become mature disciples at the moment they decided to follow Jesus. There is no record that Jesus baptized converts. Aside from Pentecost, the New Testament records a surprisingly small number of baptismal events. Neither Jesus, nor Paul, nor the other apostles emphasized baptism as the main goal of their work. Without question, baptism is a moment of deepest theological and experiential significance on the journey of discipleship (see Romans 6). But even at Pentecost, with its unprecedented revelation of the Holy Spirit’s power, much disciple-making work remained to be done among the converts after the large baptisms.

Adventists have tended to define success in mission as baptism. We feel that we have achieved success when the candidate emerges from the waters of baptism to become a church member. The fact is that new church members have a long way to grow to become mature disciples. Some members, new and old, never really become disciples in a meaningful way. We have disciple-making structures in place, such as Sabbath School, Pathfinders, and other departments. However, these structures may not fulfill their full potential, because of our unarticulated confidence that the “job is done” at the baptistry.

There may be some good reasons for this perspective that are rooted in Adventist history. The Adventist pioneers and their early converts were often deeply committed Christians who were already quite mature disciples. For them, the Adventist message was a “value added” or “finishing truth” message, set in the perspective of biblical prophecy. They felt that they became more complete Christians by becoming Adventists.

In the twenty-first century biblical literacy has declined among many self-identified Christians, secularism has become prominent, and people of the non-Christian world religions have yet to be reached effectively. Against this background the Adventist message needs to be seen not as a “finishing truth” for Christians but as a “starting truth” for almost everyone because so many need the most rudimentary gospel teaching. To understand the Second Coming, people must first understand the first coming of Christ. The spiritual journey toward baptism and the ongoing path to mature discipleship is very much longer for nominal Christians and non-Christians than for biblically literate, committed, discipled Christians of other denominations. To illustrate, leading a Buddhist to mature discipleship is a much more challenging task than guiding a mature Baptist Christian to be a mature Adventist disciple.

A disciple is one who experiences continual transformation toward the fullness of Christ in a biblically faithful way, in a culturally appropriate way, at the worldview level, in personal spirituality, in emotional wholeness, in personal lifestyle, in family relationships, as a member of the body of Christ, and as a disciple-making disciple. Christ’s method includes all of these factors in a prebaptism, baptism, and postbaptism process wrapped into a package called discipleship.

Let us note two things about Christ’s method of making disciples. First, He placed major emphasis on inner transformation. Passages like the Sermon on the Mount and the parables were aimed at making deep inner change. Without inner transformation, the work His disciples would do would not be effective. The “mission trip” of Matthew 10 was a valuable lesson for the Twelve, but it did not stand alone as a disciple-making method. He wanted the Twelve to become fishers of men, but His curriculum emphasized changing their hearts.

Perhaps Christ’s method should be a helpful corrective for Adventists. We may rely too heavily on getting new members involved in soul-winning activity as the key to making them true disciples. Without a doubt, soul winning is a blessing that facilitates some of the inner transformation disciples need to experience. However, soul winning should not be seen as a “silver bullet” for making disciples. Spiritual growth does not happen on autopilot. Inner transformation into the likeness of Christ needs to be addressed directly and intentionally. The Bible is the primary text for spiritual transformation, and such books as Steps to Christ and _The Desire of Ages_ are outstanding supplemental resources.

Second, Jesus used culturally available and appropriate methods and modes of instruction. He could have created modern-style books, smartphones, radio, television, or public-address systems, but these methods were not culturally available. Instead, He stood to read the synagogue scroll and sat down to teach, as was customary. He used natural settings and events from which to draw lessons. The world’s greatest Teacher left no known documents written by Himself. His example demonstrates that the Adventist message is not to be identified with or limited by a single methodology. Christ’s whole methodology was receptor-oriented. He always considered where His audience was coming from culturally and spiritually, and used the best available methods to lead them into discipleship.

Some of the most effective methods used by Christ span the centuries because of their universal appeal. Stories, proverbs, parables, and drama are modes of communication that penetrate deeply into peoples’ hearts. Stories are not merely valuable for child entertainment. Rather, stories are used in the Bible, and notably in the Gospels, as primary vehicles of truth. Propositional statements of truth have their place, but the stories of the Bible carry life-changing power. Human life is not lived as a series of propositions, but as a series of dramatic scenes. Truth-filled Bible stories intersect with the human story to make the deepest impact, whether among Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, Christians, or nonreligious people.

_Gorden R. Doss was born in the U.S.A. and grew up in Malawi. His time in service has been divided between Malawi and the United States. Since 1998 he has taught world mission at Andrews University. He earned a Doctor of Ministry from Andrews University and a Doctor of Philosophy from Trinity Evangelical Divinity School. His wife, Cheryl, is director of the Institute of World Mission at the General Conference. They have two married children and four grandchildren._

_* This written version of the presentation includes some material omitted from the spoken presentation because the scheduled time was shortened. My book, Introduction to Adventist Mission, discusses what follows and much more. See chapter 14, “A Model for Strategic Adventist Mission,” especially._