---
title: Keep Me From Stumbling
date: 04/28/2025
---

_Pamela Consuegra, PhD_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> "Now to Him who is able to keep you from stumbling, And to present you faultless Before the presence of His glory with exceeding joy, To God our Savior, Who alone is wise, Be glory and majesty, Dominion and power, Both now and forever. Amen." (Jude 1:24, 25 NKJV)

### Observation

**_Now._** In concluding his letter Jude turns from the false teachers and their prototypes and directs his readers’ attention to the ineffable glory of the Lord. This doxology closely parallels that of Rom. 16:25–27 (see comment there).

**_Unto him that is able._** The same Greek words are translated “to him that is of power” in Rom. 16:25 (see comment there and on Eph. 3:20).

**_Keep you._** A vivid picture of the Lord’s constant care for His children.

**_From falling._** The one who accepts God’s guardianship can live above sin (cf. on 1 John 3:6, 9).

**_To present._** The climax of God’s keeping comes when the believer stands without fear in the divine presence, on the day of judgment (cf. on 1 John 2:28). By the enabling grace of Christ the Christian lives with a confident belief in God’s power to keep him from falling into sin and to enable him, eventually, to stand spotless and unashamed in the divine presence. [_The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, Volume 7_. 1980 (F. D. Nichol, Ed.) (710–711). Review and Herald Publishing Association.]

### Application

Have you ever felt at your wits end? You have taken all you can and you feel like you are going to explode! Take heart because help is promised. When you have reached the brink, ask for His help and patience. Ask that He give you the response that would glorify His name.

We have all been guilty of doing the opposite. Our tempers often get the best of us and even as the words are exiting our mouths we experience regret. The good news in those tin is to remember that God is there to help us get up again. With His help we can keep walking forward and lean on Him to prevent from stumbling again. When you have stumbled, don't be too hard on yourself. Ask God to forgive and ask your spouse or children to do the same. Even these times of stumbling can be opportunities to give powerful spiritual lessons to our children of God's forgiveness and of His willingness to help us from falling again.

Remember, in our struggles we are not alone. We have a promised partnership with God. Claim that promise today and walk with your hand in His.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Dear Lord, keep me from stumbling today. Give me patience and help me to endure. Show me a better way, a better response. May I respond in ways that will glorify Your name. In Jesus' name, Amen.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._