---
title: God First In All Situations
date: 02/08/2025
---

> <p></p>
> “A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.” –Proverbs 15:1

Kudakwashe Chipatiso is a businessman who is soft spoken. One day as he was on his business errands, he stopped at a gas station to add air in one of his tires. Unfortunately, another motorist who had arrived earlier had parked improperly, leaving Kudakwashe with no choice but to park in front of this individual.

When the man came out of the shop, he was unhappy with Kudakwashe’s parking and began shouting, hurling unkind words at him. Despite this, Kudakwashe remained composed, offering a smile and a greeting as he promptly moved his car.

As Kudakwashe drove away, the man drove close to him, bombarding him with questions: “How were you able to remain calm and even greet me when I was trying to provoke you? Why didn’t you answer back? If you had said a word, something bad might have happened to you.”

Kudakwashe replied with a smile, saying, “I am a Christian who fears God. What you observed wasn’t forced; that’s simply who I am.” Kudakwashe went on to talk about God and how God wanted him to change so that he, too, could treat others well. This prompted the man to open up and share with Kudakwashe the challenging situation he was going through. Kudakwashe promised to pray for him and assured the man that God would see him through any challenges he faced.

Kudakwashe chose to put God first in his interactions with the man. When asked how he remained calm under serious provocation, Kudakwashe attributed that to God.

### Appeal

When we choose to put God first in our everyday lives, it becomes natural to put God first in whatever He blesses us with. Returning tithe and offerings will be easy when God holds the first place in our lives. Why not put Him first today?