---
title: The Trinity—Father, Son, and Holy Spirit
---

There is one God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, a unity of three coeternal Persons. This union of three Persons is referred to as the Trinity, or Godhead. Deuteronomy 6:4; Genesis 1:26; Matthew 3:16, 17; 28:19; Romans 1:20; Colossians 2:9.

God the Father, along with the Son and Holy Spirit, is our eternal Creator. He is perfect in character, being the fullness of love, ever- present, all-knowing, all-powerful, and worthy of our worship. Psalm 90:2; 1 John 4:8-10, 16; Psalm 139:7-10; Matthew 19:26; Revelation 4:11.

God the Son became incarnate in Jesus Christ. Jesus is a perfect expression of the Father. He is fully God and has always existed—“His goings forth are from everlasting.” He is also fully man and was “in all points tempted as we are.” John 1:1-3, 14; 14:9; Colossians 1:15-19; Micah 5:2; Hebrews 4:15.

The Holy Spirit is also a person and fully God. Jesus called the Spirit “He” and “Him” continually. Scripture records the Holy Spirit referring to Himself as “Me,” and making decisions “as He wills.” The Spirit can be “insulted” and grieved. These examples reveal the Holy Spirit to be a distinct person with intelligence and feelings. In both Old and New Testaments He is described as ever-present, bringing conviction, comfort, and strength to God’s people.The Great Commission directs us to baptize in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, indicating that the Holy Spirit is an equal member of the Godhead. Acts 5:3, 4; John 14:16, 17, 26; 16:5-15; Acts 13:2; 1 Corinthians 12:11; Hebrews 10:29; Ephesians 4:30; Genesis 1:2; Psalm 51:11, 12; Isaiah 48:16; Matthew 28:18-20.

**My Commitment**: _I believe in one God, a unity of three coeternal Persons—Father, Son, and Holy Spirit—each of whom is fully divine and has existed from all eternity._

- [x] Yes, I agree.
- [ ] I have questions.

`My questions`