---
title: What Did Jesus Do to Become the Communicational Impact of History?
---

_Marcos Antonio Salas Núñez_

### Introduction

Jesus is the perfect combination between being and doing: His personality and His character were one. The great work that Jesus did was the result of the greatness of His character. And this teaches us that success in mission depends on two aspects that the Holy Spirit controls in us, a character in transformation and strategies based on inspired principles.

Matthew 4 begins by presenting Jesus alone in the desert and ends by saying that crowds went after Him. Was it a product of a miracle? the result of a strategy? both? What principles in this chapter can help the Seventh-day Adventist Church in its eschatological mission? How can we implement the success of Jesus as the key to the consolidation of the members of our church?

### Christ, His Character

Most Christians intellectually believe in the power of God to work miracles. Resuscitating the dead, healing the sick, or feeding crowds must have been instruments to powerfully draw people’s attention. Logically we can conclude that Jesus based His ministry on these divine acts, but it was not so. The vindication of God’s character in the universe and the salvation of the fallen race required much more than momentary solutions. The success of Jesus was rooted in His character and strategies based on invincible principles. In the face of the end of the great conflict we need, as never before, to dig with prayer and determination in this chapter of Matthew and learn from Jesus how to overcome the Great Babylon, thus fulfilling what is written.

#### Jesus Allowed Himself to Be Led by the Holy Spirit. Matthew 4:1.

In the earthly experience of our Master we find that He understood the role of the Holy Spirit in the dosage of confrontation with evil. He knew that it is necessary for the integral development of His people because it helps us to take away our trust in us and put it in God. Matthew tells us that after His baptism Jesus was led by the Spirit into the desert to be tempted by the devil, as is the case with all Christians. In order to understand the reason God the Spirit has to do this, we need to understand what He is looking for when we decide to work with Him. As expressed by Jesus in Mark 12:29-31, 33, God seeks that we love Him above all, that we love ourselves properly and love our neighbor in the light of the plan of salvation. Most Christians have a hard time accepting this. Hence the “eternal” dispute between the concepts of salvation by faith or works. If we try to pay attention to God, we will accept that once we have been baptized, anything God allows or does in our life seeks to develop in us love. Even the confrontation with evil has this objective. The Holy Spirit had this in mind when He led Jesus into the desert. Whether He takes us to Patmos, to the desert to meet a stranger, or to visit a desperate widow in Sarepta, He is looking for us to have experiences that teach us to love, so that we have the seal or character of God and so the world can recognize us as His children.

#### Jesus Knows Who He Is. Matthew 4:3, 5, 6.

After His baptism, the first two temptations enticed Jesus to doubt His condition. In both, the tempter began by saying, “If You are the Son of God” (Matthew 4:3), inviting Jesus to question His personal condition. In baptism we are adopted into the family of God; we are made children of God. From then on, everything that happens to us is for our good, as the apostle Paul declares in Romans 8:28. Although this is true and legal, it does not mean that Satan will leave without fighting for what until then was his domain. He knows that our carnal nature will constantly lead us to seek our salvation in a selfish way, based on the I, not on Jesus. That is why Jesus wants us to believe not what appearances dictate, but what His Word says about what we are thanks to Him. He also warns us that in the time of the end many false christs will come, and there will be a constant attack on His Divine-human personality.

God wants us to think of ourselves as Laodiceans that, thanks to Him, become the 144,000. It is true that our church today wants to vomit God. That is why we so easily find faults that lead us to disunity. The same situation faced Jesus with the church of His time, however, He never stopped considering the church as the girl of His eyes, the object of His greatest care. He warned us with the parable of the 10 virgins that all would fall asleep, although five were ready by the time the bridegroom arrived. That is the reason to teach our new brothers to know that we are Laodiceans in the process of becoming the 144,000. Show them that God is working with us to make our life His perfect work. No defeatism or triumphalism. We are the militant church, a movement with a mission.

#### Jesus Combined the Scriptures With Prayer and Mission. Matthew 4: 4, 7, 10.

Whoever reads the Bible without a clear mission will soon stop doing so or will become an obstacle in the God’s work. Most Christians walk through their lives without practicing the only things that give the Holy Spirit time to transform our character. Satan is interested in staying in the church, and without a vital connection with God as we will become a bad witness of the gospel. For a vital and transformative relationship with Jesus, we need God to speak to us, to listen to us, and to walk with us. He speaks to us through His Word, He listens to us through prayer, and He walks with us while we attack evil on this earth. In order to support children, young, new, and old in the faith, it is important to have at least the Bible and their Sabbath School study guide. In addition, we must help them with a personal study plan. New members need trained and experienced older members to help them search their needs in the biblical “menu.” Pastors and elders must be experts in this matter.

New members find challenges when they agree to study the Bible. Some Old Testament books have “boring” portions that must be studied with a keen intention to be assimilated. In their first love the new ones in the faith read the Pentateuch, the first five books of Moses. When they begin to face some not very rosy aspects of their new lives and of the church and they have to read books like Chronicles and others that have a style that requires some “chronologies” that may jeopardize their interest in studying, they are likely to take refuge in exclusively studying the Sabbath School study guide, which may also contain confusing elements for their new faith. That is why some propose that the new in faith should first study the Gospels to get to know Jesus better before entering into the other biblical portions. Whatever the case, we need to have a group that personally takes care of the new members so that they receive the spiritual nurture they need.

This process should include teaching about prayer. How nice would it be if the new ones in the faith based their prayers on what they had read that day, in addition to other things that they want to talk to God about, such as mission. The mission challenges us, creates the need for guidance from God and to ask Him on how to solve challenges. As a consequence, we gradually come to love God and our neighbor.

#### Jesus’ Mission Was Above His Personal Interests. Matthew 4:8-11.

As it has already been said, mission is what unites us to God and gives meaning to our devotional lives. Jesus calls us to be fishers. It includes that He wants to give us a successful life, having as its focus the work that we do with Him in the great conflict. An essential element that the new members must learn is that their secular work is given by God to sustain themselves, but the mission is what they really are. We should all come to think like fishers. Some of us have to catch small fish and others large fish, using different means. When someone asked Jesus, “Who are you?” He responded in different ways that He was the Messiah, the Savior of humanity. He never said He was a carpenter, although this profession is very honorable.

The Bible says that when Jesus was victorious, “angels came and served Him” (Matthew 4:11). When our role in the plan of salvation is our reason to be, which gives us meaning and we live for it, God is committed so that our sustenance is assured. Imagine a small group and a congregation that works in this way. The apostle to the Gentiles tells us that God established some as apostles, others as prophets, others as evangelists, and some as pastors and teachers (Ephesians 4:11). In fact, the church of Antioch worked like that at the time when the Spirit chose Paul to send to the Gentile world to preach the gospel.

In the description of Ephesians 4 the Spirit tells us that in the church there are four main divisions of fishers. Apostles are called and trained to be specialists in the search for strategies to bring children, youth, and adults to the feet of Jesus. Today we call this group biblical instructors. The prophets, the older members, are specialists in creating and developing ways to sustain new members in the faith. They use the Bible, the Spirit of Prophecy, the Church Manual, and other instruments of God to edify the new members. Evangelists, now called lay preachers, are called and adapted to evangelize crowds. Pastors or teachers are the specialists in teaching everyone. That is why today we call them lay instructors. All departments and ministries of the church must contain these main groups, from which any number of ministries and functions we need in the church are derived. The reason these are the four main general ministries is that ultimately our duty in the church is to win, consolidate, preach, and teach.

### Christ, His Plan and Execution

If the first law of heaven is order, it should be the same in the case of Jesus. Those born in the kingdom of God are born as missionaries, or fishers. That statement implies a plan and a structure for its implementation. That is why Jesus had to follow the plan devised before the foundation of the world, a plan that has a personal dimension for each one and a general one that includes all those immersed in the great conflict. In this section we will analyze the plan that made Jesus the event of His time and eternity, and, above all, we will seek our Lord in prayer to implement these principles.

#### Jesus Had a Plan. Matthew 4:12.

“When Jesus heard . . .” is a very interesting biblical expression. It manifests planning, to expect something planned to happen to move to a new stage. The time had come to move from near anonymity to the explosion of salvation. God and the world are waiting for the same to occur with the remnant.

As a church we have an inspired, logical, and effective structure. It is perfectible and should be reviewed, but it has been effective in leading us to be one of the fastest expanding churches. The biggest challenge is at the local church. We must take care of some concepts that confuse the Lord’s flock, such as the one that places the main emphasis on baptizing and not on discipling, or the one that says we do not like to baptize, because we seek quality and not quantity. Our mission is to have disciples in whom your love for God and your neighbor grows every day thanks to the study of the Bible, prayer, and the fulfillment of your ministry. If we do not baptize, we will not have disciples; so planning must encompass discipleship.

Jesus teaches us that the challenge in mission is what makes structure and integration necessary. The unity, love, and financial investment of the church come as a result of the mission plan. God expects us to teach how to work in an organized way, and that the organizational structure will help us so that all members, including the new ones, have a personal plan to implement their ministry. Of course, this plan has everything to do with the small groups plan and that of the congregation. We are not referring only to a calendar of activities; we are talking about a five-year and annual strategic plan and an annual mission project. Our educational institutions must make pastors aware of the fundamental principles of planning and finance. The new ones in the faith must arrive at a people group that knows what it is doing, which little by little will guide them in such a way that that they will be able to fulfill their function within the mission planning and project. This is consolidation.

#### Jesus Sought a Strategic Location. Matthew 4:13, 14.

The first part of Jesus’ strategy was to get to the right place. He chose Capernaum for several important reasons that we will analyze shortly. The location tells us what we will give most importance to, as it establishes what or whom we are looking for. We tend to work in our comfort zone, which we have already reached and which represents the least amount of effort to survive. Today Jesus encourages us again to leave Nazareth and go to Capernaum to be able to make healthy disciples.

Capernaum was the city of Peter, Andrew, James, John, and Matthew, the disciples. It was one of the three cities that Jesus cursed at the end of His earthly ministry for its lack of faith. Jesus had a prophetic reason to choose it as the center of His work, as what was said by the prophet Isaiah should be fulfilled. This characteristic is very important in planning, because it is the one that gives the passion and the reason to fulfill the mission. When the planning is based on a writing, we have all the necessary support to insist until we successfully crown our plan. Our mission is impossible to accomplish if God does not intervene. That is why we need the members to see that it is God who determines the place, which is what drives us and always keeps advancing by faith, outside our comfort zone. The new one in the faith must know that it is not by their strength or ability, it is by working with the Holy Spirit that their will successfully fulfill the mission among their family, friends, and strangers. The same must be seen in all the church estates. It must be seen that our motto as a movement is to move forward, to extend our stakes because God says in His Word that we can reach the whole world with our message. To all—rich, poor, secularized, and of all religions.

The second reason Jesus chose Capernaum was that it was located on the “sea road,” because it was a “maritime city” (Matthew 4:13-15). With this description the Bible tells us that Jesus made His planning on the trade route that linked Mesopotamia with Egypt through Palestine. The first was the main area of the Asian continent, and the second that of the African continent. All those who came from Europe also passed through there. So it was a city with a privileged location so that most of the known world could understand the plan of salvation. Jesus based His planning on the lost, not on the ones already in the kingdom. That is why Jesus became the world event of history: He wanted to impact the whole world. One of the great Adventist inconsistencies is that we say things that we do not support with our facts. We educate our missionaries and pastors for people who live for a long time in “university bubbles,” whose center is the one in the kingdom. Many times we invest the greatest amount of our resources to sustain what we have, and forget about the lost. Many churches make their planning with the intent of keeping their membership attending church services and giving their tithes and offerings. We are creating a defensive culture, not an offensive one. Jesus understood what many sports technicians know today is the key to success; the best defense is the attack. How many blessings are invested for our churches: great preachers, extraordinary music, master classes, and colorful and even special art manifestations. Everything within our comfort zones. Jesus today sends us to think about the places where the greatest quantity of people are. That is the best way to consolidate our new and old members, asking as the widow of the parable the blessing of God, with insistence to bring the gospel to all.

“Capernaum” today requires from us education and creativity. Let’s not continue comparing ourselves with the neighboring churches, presenting beautiful programs that have as the ultimate intent the program and not the human being. Commercial companies have a fierce war among them for the conquest of consumer interest. Those who conform to what has been achieved and live on their past glories are doomed to extinction. Hence the need to educate church ministries leaders, and the need for departments or specialists in all levels to educate church members to go out as an army to meet people. As the prophecies say, the united education with a creativity directed by the Holy Spirit will make a dent in the enemy protections until their complete destruction.

The next reason Jesus chose Capernaum was that it was an important city in “Galilee of the Gentiles” (Matthew 4:15). The first reasons had to do with a strategic area; the latter has to do with people who lived in that place. After the deportation of the 10 northern Israelite tribes by the Assyrians, this land was repopulated by “Gentile” people. In Jesus’ day many Jews had settled there, but they were populations with large numbers of descendants of Gentiles. It is reiterated in this way that it is the lost and not those in the faith who are the objective of the mission of Jesus and the church, so that we can become the salt and light of the world. That is why it was written, “The people living in darkness have seen a great light; on those living in the land of the shadow of death a light has dawned” (Matthew 4:16, NIV).

#### Jesus Had a Clear and Expansive Message. Matthew 4:17.

Jesus’ message is: “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven has come near” (NIV). Which leads us to ask ourselves, What does it mean to “repent”? And what did Jesus mean when He said that the kingdom of heaven has come near?

The message of Jesus and that of John the Baptist was one and the same (Matthew 3:2). We find that both preaching led people to be baptized and confess their sins, which was unusual in those times because being part of God’s people assumed that circumcision was their “baptism,” or entry into the kingdom of God and that the sanctuary system was the way to confess their sins. Of course, neither John nor Jesus were against these two sacred teachings of God’s covenant with His people. Something that can shed light on the reason for this change is found on the time in which John confronted the Pharisees and Sadducees when they came to be baptized. Instead of congratulating them on their decision, he called them a “brood of vipers” (verse 7). John wanted to know who had taught them to flee from the wrath to come (verse 7) and where their “fruits worthy of repentance” (verse 8) were. Instead, they were protecting themselves, thinking they were children of Abraham. The Pharisees had not learned from anyone, because they considered themselves so good that they felt them had no need for that. Much less were they interested in changing their lives or thinking that anger was coming; they wanted to continue exactly with their positions and behavior and hope that their social and economic condition would improve with the coming of the Messiah. They wanted to be baptized to have all the necessary requirements to achieve well-being in this world.

The message of John and that of Jesus were the same of the sanctuary, humble repentance before God to be saved. That is why the veil had five colors. They represented the five main characteristics that the Messiah would have: purity (white), crimson (atoning sacrifice), purple (domain), gold (control of the Holy Spirit), and blue (divinity). They were to be taught and led by the Messiah to flee the wrath of God. They had to be “born of water and the Spirit” (John 3:5) in order to enter the kingdom of God. They should take the yoke of Jesus, an attitude of sacrifice in the face of need, to let the Holy Spirit change their lives and thus be able to bear the fruits of someone who is following the Messiah. That is why the sacrificial altar was located first, and then the lavatory. They could not be baptized, the lavatory, without first being willing to be taught and to sacrifice themselves to have a character like Jesus’, as represented by the sacrificial altar.

Yesterday, today, and tomorrow, we are all like the Pharisees and Sadducees. That is why John and Jesus call for repentance and its fruits. Nothing we are or do saves us from the wrath to come. We need to repent, to say, accept, believe, and work according to what is established by Jesus. In practice this is being willing to be taught, to understand the plan of salvation as it is in the Scriptures and to accept that plan when baptized. At that moment, having been justified by becoming children of God, we have escaped the wrath to come. From there, sanctification begins. We remain open to divine guiding and to the changes He wants to generate in us. There is no condemnation, because we are in Christ; there is only constant transformation and to be filled with that love that makes our salvation possible.

At this point we must ask ourselves: How are we Adventists known? Some believe that we are not evangelical, which means we teach a way of salvation without Jesus. They say that we do not eat pork, we do not work or play on Saturdays, we do not dance, we do not use alcohol or coffee, we do not eat meat, and that we were organized by the teachings of Ellen White. We must recognize that the public in some places does not have a clear picture of our message. We do not want to discredit the importance of the things for which they know us, but perhaps we need to make a clearer presentation of the extraordinary evangelical message that we have, as Revelation 14 states. The answer could be found in the next part of Jesus’ message: “the kingdom of heaven has come near” (Matthew 4:17, NIV).

So that we could all understand the gospel, Jesus, the kingdom of God, approached us. Jesus was a friend of the people, of the bad and of the “good.” It related to the “vetoed” of the congregations. That is why today He sends us to approach pastors and priests of other denominations, including the pope, the presidents of the nations, nuns and homosexuals, the stinkers and others with whom it is not easy to relate. We are so worried in our congregations about the type of music, the haircut, and other things that could be important that we run out of energy to implement the method of Christ. We must be a church in which everyone can worship and feel free to be transformed by the Holy Spirit, while He gives patience to the old woman who criticizes us or us who criticize her. While this happens within, outside we must have more selfless but intentional community service. Our service of friendship must be selfless because the goal is to be friends with the sinner so that when they need Jesus we can show Him to them. We lose a lot when we approach people only because we want them to be Adventists. Some even think that we should not have some kind of relationship with the “mundane.” If this were so, how could we be salt? Therefore, our friendship with the worldly must be intentional, to seek to save the sinner. That is why we pray that the Holy Spirit will lead us to find ways to present Jesus to our friends. Regardless of whether they accept Him or not, we must be intentional at presenting Jesus. Whether they accept or not, they must remain a person who considers us in a good way. But if they do accept Jesus, then we will have one more friend in our church.

#### Jesus Had a Team, a Small Group. Matthew 4:18-22.

A leader without followers and a plan without people who benefit is absurd. That is why Jesus sought friends to share the gospel and the blessings that this entails. Simon Peter and Andrew, his brother, were the first disciples He encountered. Then He met the brothers James and John, who were in the boat that belonged to their father, Zebedee. From here two important points in ecclesiastical administration emerge. First, Jesus sought two adults and two young men as His first disciples. This is understood because Peter and Andrew used fishing nets that belonged to them, and the two others were working with what belonged to their father. The second aspect is that Jesus called them in pairs.

Jesus worked with adults and young people because He knew they are complementary groups. Adults have the experience, and young people have enthusiasm and new ideas. This combination is noted in the Gospels, Jesus utilizing one group to enrich the other. If the newly baptized is a child, youth, or adult, they should feel that they now belong to a small group, congregation, and other organizational strata that are wise enough to know that we not only have the same importance, but that we are all necessary. That there is room for dialogue and that opinion is respected. That participation of anyone who wants to participate is allowed, both in the planning and execution. The challenges we face as a church are so impressive that none of the generations can disregard the participation of the other under penalty of being disadvantaged.

Jesus came to establish a system that has as its fundamental nucleus a group of 12 people. God through Jethro prescribed it to Moses and there laid the success of the desert people. This is so important that when Paul was converted, he did not need any man to explain the evangelical message, but he did need to understand the role of the group as a fundamental part of the structure. Jesus established the small group into the DNA of the Christian church so that it would be possible to baptize thousands without building temples and to continue growing without structural problems. If there is a small group that takes care of its members and has a plan with which it works with other groups and with the congregation, then there is no need to fear. Members go to the congregation to receive spiritual benefits, although they receive the essential in their small group.

The other aspect that was intertwined with this axis of the structure is the missionary couple. Jesus divided the groups into pairs so that in the implementation each one had a mega friend and friends. Everyone needs someone to temper it in good times and bad. The missionary couple has functions that the small group and the congregation cannot exercise, just as they have blessings that the missionary couple lacks. That is why Jesus worked with all ages, in small groups and as a missionary couple. That is why He was so calm when He ascended. He told them to wait for the Father’s promise, knowing that once they received it they would succeed, because they had learned the basis of the structure. That’s how He turned them into fishers.

The church must have a worship service to train, and moments in all worship services and departments to do so. Sabbath School should serve as a platform for each small group to participate in the program and have enough time to study the Bible, to be updated with the missionary strategies to be implemented, to support missions and for fellowship. The mission segment can be used for training and as a showcase for each department to report on their missionary work. An evening worship can be a training school, and sermons must have a little more teaching to accompany the actions of the congregation.

#### Jesus Met the People With the Gospel Where They Were.

Jesus undertook with His disciples a very particular type of instruction, educating them with His words and with His example, inviting them to practice what they learned. He was surprised by the sun while talking to His Father and the Holy Spirit to refine the details of the new day. While they got ready and ate, He weaved His teachings with His actions while filling His friends’ minds with faith. He was teaching us that all we do is evangelism. To preach of His love since we wake up in the morning, at work, in class, as fishers. Although special moments to go out to evangelize may exist, and we need them, our life is the most powerful testimony of what God wants to do with humanity. That means that Jesus traveled through “all of Galilee” to live in our territory and to expand by the fame that our testimony brings to the name of God, and by territorial progress. The disciples touched the hearts of rich and poor wherever they arrived.

An important biblical and missionary detail is the phrase “In their synagogue.” As the apostle Paul did later, Jesus prayed and worked, looking for receptive people. From the moment a person is born, the Spirit of God tries to win them for His kingdom. During the rest of that life God will do what is necessary for them to accept the plan of salvation. Humans are unable to know how close someone is to accepting Jesus, but God does. When they went to the synagogues, they went to the place where there were people who had the knowledge and the desire to be with God. The Missionary Project starts by putting members to pray for people they know and want to see in the heavenly homeland. Prayer does not change God; it changes the ones who pray and awakens love for the lost, allowing God to fill them with skills and ideas to approach that person. God is the one who levels our intensity by being friendly to the people, telling us when it is time to speak to them, inviting them to the activities of the small group or the congregation and when we confront them with the decision to give their heart to Jesus. We must know that there are moments in our lives that sensitize us spiritually. So with prayer and being friendly, we will be intentional in expressing our love in times of need that the people for whom we are praying have. A death, loss of work, birth of a baby, a disease, among many other situations, can be triggers for someone to establish an eternal relationship with their Creator.

Under the direction of the Spirit we can use the three main ways to reach people’s hearts: Teaching, preaching, and healing. It is good that we have several instruments to achieve this, an informal conversation, a Bible study, a special event of the small group or the congregation. That is the reason we should be intentionally evangelistic in doing the planning and calendar of the congregation. Human beings work better in cycles, so we must implement in the year activities of approach, sowing the truth, and others to harvest and consolidate. Approach activities can be: Christmas, ADRA collection, music concerts, culinary courses. Youth and children’s clubs and other departments can do social, sports, and cultural activities. The objective of these activities is to show that we are a friendly, pleasant, and positive church, as our God is. The Adventist Church should be recognized for its Christ-centered and prophetic message based on the celestial sanctuary that includes the investigative judgment, for the prohealth reform message, and for being an institution that works for the family. Each of these activities should end with an invitation to other activities, and to introduce planting activities and biblical courses.

Sowing can be a Week of Emphasis on the family, or a Week of Emphasis on health. With these activities we seek that people be taught, or for them receive the preaching of the gospel, satisfying their basic needs. The intent of these activities is to get people interested in Bible studies. Then will the harvest-consolidation events come. We recommend the union of these two aspects because experience tells us that when we dedicate time exclusively to consolidation, the old part of the Lord’s army can enter a dangerous territory and, above all, as Jesus did, the only way to consolidate newcomers is putting them to work for others. At this stage we find small group, ministerial, youth, and other campaigns. It would be good to divide the ecclesiastical year into two, each with its time for approach, sowing, and harvest-consolidation activities. Thus we will have the opportunity to teach, preach, and heal integrally those who decide to submit themselves to the work of the Holy Spirit.

#### Jesus Spread His Fame.

In conclusion, the Bible says that Jesus’ fame reached Syria, Galilee, Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea, and the other side of the Jordan. It reached those places because His goal was to teach His disciples to work with His method; after His departure they would have time to go to the whole world.

_Marcos Antonio Salas Núñez has a degree in theology, having graduated from the Adventist University of Colombia in 1987. In 2005 he graduated with a master’s in pastoral theology from SETAI, an educational institution of the Inter-American Division. He worked as a district pastor in the Eastern Venezuelan Union from 1988 to 2000. Then he served as the ministerial secretary in the department of personal ministries and president of the Central Venezuelan Association from 2001 to 2011. From 2011 until 2015 Núñez worked in the department of personal and communication ministries as well. Since 2016 he has directed the Hispanic district located in Saint Maarten of the North Caribbean Conference in the Caribbean Union._

_* Unless otherwise noted, Bible texts in this article are from the New King James Version._