---
title: Which Came First, the Grapfruit Seed, the Grapefruit, or the Grapefruit Tree?
---

It’s a big universe out there. Two trillion galaxies with 100 billion stars each, and some of those stars have planets orbiting them, just as our sun does. Suppose on one of those planets the inhabitants got their nutrition, not from food, but from merely staring at their sun. A swami here on earth claims that we can do the same: get all our nutrition from the sun alone (though we advise not to try this at home).

Suppose that the beings on this planet were told about another planet, called Earth, where the inhabitants put pellets, little white pellets, in dirt, and that was it: They just left these little white pellets in dirt, and with only water and sunshine, out of these pellets grew trunks of wood, called trees, with dozens of branches. And on each of these branches sprouted green leaves from which coated packages of food—tasty, beautiful, nutritious food called “grapefruit”—would be created in abundance. And this is how the people on Earth got, at least partially, what they needed to survive. Suppose those people from this other planet were told, too, that inside those grapefruits many more white pellets would grow, and each single pellet could be taken out of the grapefruit and put into the dirt, and yes, more grapefruit trees would grow out of that one pellet in the dirt, creating more grapefruits that contain more pellets, and on and on infinitely.

Why would they believe it? Why should they believe it? Why would anyone believe it? Nothing is logical, nothing is commonsensical, and nothing is rational about a little white pellet containing even one grapefruit tree, much less potentially an infinite number of grapefruit trees, in itself. Just add dirt, water, and sunshine—and voilà, a grapefruit tree!

Please! If we had never seen anything like a seed in dirt turn into a tree filled with fruit bearing more seeds, why would we believe it? “They talked,” wrote G. K. Chesterton of intellectuals, “as if the fact that a tree bears fruit were just as necessary as the fact that two and one trees make three. But it is not.”*

No, it’s not necessary at all. It is, instead, a miracle. But the only reason that we don’t think so is that we see it happen all the time. But if only once in our entire lives we saw someone put a white pellet in dirt and out of that pellet came a grapefruit tree, we would deem it a miracle filled with awe and mystery.

And that’s just the grapefruit. What about peaches, plums, apples, avocados, broccoli, lemons, tomatoes, coconuts, wheat, barley, rice, kiwi, cucumbers, apricots, bananas, blueberries, breadfruit, cherries, asparagus, cauliflower, celery, corn, eggplant, kale, onions, garlic, mustard, red pepper, radishes, blackberries, cantaloupes, watermelons, clementines, figs, olives, guava, mangoes, nectarines, passion fruit, spinach, strawberries, basil, mustard, okra, cranberries, and on and on and on? Each one of these arising from a pellet in the dirt? It’s not logical, it’s not rational, it’s not sensible. It’s, instead, a miracle. If only one time in our whole lives we can see any one of these alone (and this just what we can eat) arise out of the dirt, it would astonish us. But all of them? And every season, too? We’re just so used to it that we don’t see the miracle that it is.

Meanwhile, one might humbly ask: How did the grapefruit tree evolve? That is, how did it arise, unintentionally, with no thought at all going into it, as the theory of evolution speculates? (Evolution allows for no forethought, no intentions, no purposes, for any life forms on earth.) How does something that’s only partially a grapefruit (or a cherry or a banana) seed, or partially a grapefruit (or a cherry or a banana) tree, or partially a grapefruit (or a cherry or a banana) evolve into a whole seed, a whole tree, or a whole grapefruit (or a whole cherry or a whole banana)? Or, instead, did one of them evolve first? If so, what came first: the grapefruit seed, the grapefruit tree, or the grapefruit? (It’s a vegan version of the chicken-and-egg paradox: which came first, the chicken or the egg?)

However, the problem isn’t really a problem, because the question itself—“What came first: the grapefruit seed, the grapefruit tree, or the grapefruit?”—is a false question. It assumes what it sets out to answer, which is that one of them, the tree, the seed, the fruit, had to come first.

But that’s not what the Bible teaches. “Then God said, ‘Let the land produce vegetation: seed-bearing plants and trees on the land that bear fruit with seed in it, according to their various kinds.’ And it was so” (Genesis 1:11, NIV).

No one could answer which came first, because none did.

According to the Bible, they were created at the same time, the only logical option to the dilemma. God created the grapefruit “with seed in it.” And the same with peaches, plums, apples, avocados, broccoli, lemons, tomatoes, coconuts, wheat, barley, rice, kiwi, cucumbers, apricots, bananas, blueberries, breadfruit, cherries, asparagus, cauliflower, celery, corn, eggplant, kale, onions, garlic, mustard, red pepper, radishes, blackberries, cantaloupes, watermelons, clementines, figs, olives, guava, mangoes, nectarines, passion fruit, spinach, strawberries, basil, mustard, okra, cranberries, and on and on. Any one of these food sources, much more all of them together—beautiful, tasty, healthy, growing, literally, out of the dirt, should scream to us about our Creator God, a God who loves us.

Which leads, indeed, to what might be deemed the climax of the first angel’s message. Yes, the first angel proclaims to us “the everlasting gospel.” Yes, the first angel tells us to “fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come.” And finally, the first angel tells us to do one last thing: “Worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water” (Revelation 14:7).

What does this mean, to worship the Creator, the one who put the grapefruit tree in the seed, and the seed in the grapefruit tree—and why is it such an important message for us now?