---
title: "Why We Pray: Understanding Prayer in the Context of Cosmic Conflict"
subtitle: Editor's Pick
---

John Peckham continues what he started in his Theodicy of Love: theodicy, or the theological problem of reconciling God’s goodness and power with evil and suffering, is played out in the cosmic conflict. Adventists would be familiar with the phrase the great controversy between good and evil—not the book by Ellen White, but the metanarrative theme found throughout Scripture as well as in many of her books. You can expect more of these issues and answers in next year’s first quarter of the Adult Sabbath School Bible Study Guide, also written by Peckham.

Why We Pray addresses fundamental questions about the main characteristics of divine Being, such as omniscience, omnipresence, omnipotence, omnibenevolence, and others, and how they work with the human activity of prayer. The book is refreshingly practical while not skimping on theological depth. I found my mind stimulated with multiple biblical principles coalescing into a systematized and profound narrative, while my heart wanted to reach out to its main protagonist, God, through prayer.

Whether they know it or not, many have implicitly asked, in their experience, the theologically nuanced question of whether prayer makes any difference to the mind of a good, all-knowing, and all-powerful God. Chapter one seeks to answer this question by comparing various theological conclusions and how they hold up to Scripture.

How many Adventists are praying, not to the God of the Bible, but rather to the God of Plato? Because of presuppositions in other evangelical prayer books, the principles of prayer are fundamentally in a different framework. Based on Platonic and Aristotelian philosophies, it is impossible that God could be affected by human petitions. Rather, chapter two paints a biblical picture of what God must be like in light of the covenant and illustrated through various prayers in the Psalms. Peckham concludes that Scripture points to a God that indeed answers our prayers (just not always in the way or when we think), that He welcomes honest pleas and dialogue, and that He works to save us beyond what we deserve.

Chapter three looks at where the cosmic conflict motifs are clearly alluded to in the Lord’s Prayer. One profound discussion in the book is on remedial will differentiated from ideal will. Whereas God’s ideal will is for complete goodness and the eradication of evil and suffering, God’s remedial will kicks in, especially in light of the cosmic conflict, where God demonstrates His character while under self-imposed legal scrutiny. These conditions, which are unseen yet hinted at through Scripture, are parsed out in chapter four.

Peckham writes, “These ‘rules’ do not limit God’s sheer power, but they morally limit the ways God exercises His power” (p. 87). Biblical examples are given in which Christ’s power is able to do some things under some parameters, but morally not able because of other conditions. God’s ideal will may desire one result, but God’s remedial will, under the self-imposed limitations in the wider context of the cosmic conflict, results in another. While God is not really limited, what is amazing is that He limits Himself by committing to these “rules of engagement” to cause a larger, perhaps even the largest, good. Additionally profound is “the adversary is restricted to operate only within those specified boundaries, which is good news.”

Why We Pray takes terms of theology proper and sets them in a daily, practical, and real spiritual level. “Petitionary prayer might provide God moral jurisdiction within the rules of engagement for God to bring about some good and thus might influence whether God brings about that good in a way that is entirely consistent with divine omniscience, omnipotent, and omnibenevolence” (p. 91). An Adventist view is that prayer gives God the legal permission to work, act, intervene, even interrupt, in light of the cosmic forces and the rules by which they interact with themselves.

Chapter five deals with how these rules of engagement are reconciled with seemingly unanswered prayers. Peckham implies that we need to pray according to these rules of engagement. What he offers is not esoteric, but biblical: praying in right relationship with God, with deep (not presumptuous) faith, with unselfish motivations, persevering with hope and gratitude (even when it seems that prayers are unheard), and in accordance with God’s will. Like a rope with all five strands, this is the key to prayer in the cosmic conflict.

Last, chapter six addresses the problem of divine hiddenness and injustice in the world, providing encouragement to those who might have lost endurance while waiting for divine answers. The book ends with hope and possibly the most detailed discussion on the great controversy. It is written to elucidate the role of prayer within the cosmic interplay of good and evil.

Why We Pray is recommended to all who take the presuppositions as well as the principles of Scripture to be true. It can be used for prayer meeting, sermon series, but also personal devotions. It offers answers to questions about theodicy, suffering, and God’s will. But what is uniquely refreshing is the solid, biblical support, and theologically rigorous Seventh-day Adventist theology, yet with a pastorally pragmatic angle, all while creatively and freshly written. 