---
title: The Importance of Contextual Discipleship
---

_Bruce L. Bauer, D.Miss._

_In addition to good biblical teaching concerning the 28 fundamental beliefs, recent research highlights a disconnect between what people say they believe and their application of those beliefs to cultural and contextual issues. More emphasis must be given in helping people apply the Word of God to everyday issues of life._

This chapter explores the importance of discipleship, which is an ongoing process that lasts the entire lifetime for the people of God and answers two questions. What is a disciple? What is contextual discipleship? I begin by looking at the question of what it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ.

Jesus said, “Students are not greater than their teacher. But the student who is fully trained will become like the teacher” (Luke 6:40, NLT); therefore, a fully trained disciple is like his teacher. In first-century Palestine, rabbis accepted students who were willing to imitate them in all aspects of life. The goal was really to “create little rabbis who can become just like” their rabbi.<sup>1</sup> Those who have traveled internationally will often encounter Jewish men who dress in black slacks, a white shirt, black hat, black overcoat, and with curls hanging below their ears. They are trying to imitate in all aspects their deceased rabbi. The meaning of what Jesus was asking of those who became His disciples was for them to imitate Him, thinking and doing what Rabbi Jesus would do in all situations.

Contextual discipleship recognizes the need for Jesus’ disciples to wrestle with how the Word of God applies to every cultural and contextual issue faced in life. It is not enough to know and keep the 28 fundamental beliefs of Adventism. A true disciple applies the Word of God to all types of cultural issues that are out of step with what Jesus would do if faced with similar situations.

This seems to be a weak point in the Seventh-day Adventist Church. Our church is very good at making clear, easy-to-understand presentations on the 28 fundamental beliefs in our evangelistic series. I agree that this is an important step; however, when people just give assent to the important Adventist belief statements without also learning how to apply those statements and other biblical principles to real-life challenges in their cultural context, too often what happens is that when they are confronted with cultural or contextual issues, they flounder.

In 2013 the General Conference commissioned a Global Church Member Survey and received responses from 26,343 people in nine divisions. In 2018 a follow-up survey had 63,756 responses from all 13 divisions, with a margin of error of less than 1 percent.<sup>2</sup> Some of the findings are troubling, to say the least, and again perhaps indicate that Adventists have done a good job of teaching doctrinal beliefs but not so well at helping people apply those beliefs to their specific situation. Below are just a few statements and responses from that survey.

One of the items on the survey stated, “When people die, their bodily remains decay and they have no consciousness or activity until they are resurrected.” This is good Adventist teaching. Among respondents from all divisions, 89.6 percent agreed or strongly agreed. However, in a subsequent statement that said, “The soul is a separate part of a person and lives on after death” 8.3 percent of the respondents said they were not sure and an additional 32.5 percent agreed or strongly agreed with that statement. It is interesting that a large majority answered the belief question correctly, but when it came to applying that statement to cultural concepts and assumptions, a large percentage continued to believe in an immortal soul. Perhaps we should not be surprised, for many new Adventist members share a cultural and religious heritage with strong Catholic and Protestant teachings concerning an immortal soul or come from cultures in which most people believe that the ancestors and spirit beings interact with the living.

This ingrained assumption is an important part of many people’s worldview. Most Christians believe that when they die they immediately go to heaven. Brief discussions during an evangelistic meeting or talking about this topic in one Bible study usually will not change this deeply held belief. Worldview change takes time, and usually needs multiple stories and experiences to affect deeply held values.

Notice one more statement from the survey. “People who have died believing in Christ are in heaven right now.” Among all 13 divisions, 8.2 percent were not sure and an additional 19.5 percent agreed or strongly agreed with that statement. This means that 27.7 percent of Adventists were not sure or confused on this issue and seem to reveal deeply held cultural and religious values and assumptions that continue to intermingle with their Adventist belief system.

These examples illustrate that in all regions of the world there is still much work to be done in discipling people to help them become biblically shaped disciples. One concern is that in our haste to add members we have spent too little time in making disciples. Even though new Adventists may agree with the 28 fundamental beliefs of our church, too often they do not know how to apply the Word of God to cultural and contextual issues. In those parts of the world in which secularism, Islam, Hinduism, animism, and Buddhism predominate, a twoto-three week evangelistic meeting will never be able to change deeply held assumptions and values that are not representative of biblical Christianity.

### Dangers Lurking in Present Adventist Evangelistic and Discipling Methods

What is creating this discord between doctrinal belief statements people say they accept and contradictory values and assumptions that lurk beneath the surface? It seems that during the past 35 to 40 years the very character of Adventism has changed with an eroding of commitment to biblical beliefs and values. Adventists used to be known as people of the Book because of their deep understanding to God’s Word. Fifty years ago interests often attended six to eight weeks of evangelistic meetings followed by a year or more of Bible study. This is no longer the practice.

At the risk of offending some, I believe that part of the responsibility for this discord between beliefs and the application of those beliefs to cultural issues can be attributed to widespread evangelism methods that have become the norm in the Seventh-day Adventist Church. Too often baptism marks the end of any intentional discipling of new believers, and this is especially true when foreign evangelists are invited to do a twoor three-week evangelistic series. When they return home, often no one is present to disciple the new baby Christians.

In addition, many of the world divisions have histories of extensive use of short evangelistic meetings during which after two or three weeks with between 10 and 20 presentations, people are introduced to the distinctive Adventist beliefs and then baptized. It may be possible for some to make a commitment to Christ after such a short time; but it is questionable whether they can internalize the message, sort out all the implications of their new commitment, and have a truly converted worldview in just a few weeks’ time.

Another contributing factor is that in two of the divisions mentioned there has been extensive use of foreign evangelists. Unless the visiting evangelists spend time studying the cultural issues, they are unable to apply their messages to the specific challenges new Christians face when they start their new life in Christ. The local people who attend the meetings hear powerful and logical presentations dealing with truths that are important to Seventh-day Adventists, but most series of meetings spend little if any time dealing with how belief in Jesus Christ affects cultural issues. If in the conversion process belief in an immortal soul, the intercession of saints, the strongly held fear about ancestral spirits, and a host of other cultural issues are not explicitly dealt with, then it is little wonder that there is a disconnect between belief statements and the application of those beliefs to the local issues of life.

Another danger of discipleship that is not contextual is dual allegiance. This is a worldwide problem and is present in every one of the world divisions. Many Adventists in the Western world follow their culture more closely rather than following biblical principles in areas such as dating habits, divorce and remarriage, or issues of modesty. In other parts of the world, issues of dual allegiance are found in such areas as how women are treated, the continued visits to diviners and shaman, or the fear of curses and witchcraft that cause members to continue to seek protection from witchdoctors.

In 1994 the world was shocked by the horrors of genocide in Rwanda. More than 90 percent of the population claimed to be followers of Jesus Christ.<sup>3</sup> Adventists were the third-largest denomination in the country after Anglicans and Catholics.<sup>4</sup> Yet Catholics killed Catholics and Adventists killed Adventists. I believe there are lessons to be learned from that tragedy—all discipleship must be contextual. Muslims and Mennonites were not involved in the killings. Those two groups had taught and emphasized brotherhood, peace, and community. Adventists did not disciple in those areas, with the result that our members killed those who were not from their tribal group. Adventists taught the importance of Sabbath observance; unfortunately, that resulted in a group waiting until sundown on Sabbath evening before throwing grenades into the local Adventist church where Tutsi refugees had sought safety. Contextual discipleship could have focused on the tribal tensions in Rwanda while emphasizing the oneness that we have in Christ and the importance of living in peace with all people.

Dual allegiance can also allow one’s primary allegiance to be focused on something or someone other than God. Consumerism, materialism, and individualism have captured the primary allegiance of many in the West, and when Seventh-day Adventists have a higher commitment to someone or something other than God, harmful things often occur. Dual allegiance also results in syncretism that allows the blending of non-Christian beliefs and worldview assumptions with the teaching of Scripture. Contextual discipleship should involve conversations about the cultural topics that are out of sync with biblical principles.

### Discipleship For A Global Church

When we look at discipleship from the perspective of a global church, five lessons come into focus: Discipleship must be intentional, it must be formational, it must be built on community, it must address all areas of life, and it must be contextual.<sup>5</sup>

#### Discipleship Must Be Intentional

Discipleship in any context is never automatic. Knowing belief statements does not automatically translate into a lived reality where the implications of those beliefs are translated into everyday responses to cultural issues. Discipleship must be intentional, systematic, and planned in a way to teach people how to apply the Word of God to everyday life and how to imitate Jesus in everything that is done in life. It is not enough to assume that Sabbath School and church attendance will disciple new believers so they act, speak, and think in biblically appropriate ways. Discipleship must be intentional.

#### Discipleship Must Be Formational

When Bible study is mentioned in Adventist circles, there is usually a sense that it will involve doctrinal study. The main purpose of most Adventist Bible studies is to share biblical information with people so that they will have a correct view of the 28 fundamental beliefs, which are important to the Seventh-day Adventist Church. Again, this is not bad in and of itself; however, if this is the only type of Bible study that Adventists engage in, then there is a weakness that contributes to some of the problems mentioned above. This is especially true of new believers. Learning abstract biblical truth without encouraging discipleship can lead to weak forms of Christianity.

There must be two types of Bible study: informational study and formational study.<sup>6</sup> A very simple form of formational Bible study is to focus on one of the 700-plus stories in the Bible while asking three simple questions. What does this story teach about God? What does this story teach about people? What kingdom principles are there in this story that I need to incorporate into my life if I want to be a committed disciple of Jesus Christ? Adventists do very little of this type of Bible study. Even pastors spend most of their Bible study time preparing biblical information for their sermons and Bible studies. This lack of spiritual formation creates weak disciples and allows people to know Adventist doctrines while never learning to apply biblical principles to the cultural and societal issues.

#### Discipleship Must be Built Around a Community

Discipleship must be built around a community, a family, or a small group. Relational discipleship allows for accountability and the opportunity for group discussions on issues one faces in society. Jesus surrounded Himself with 12 disciples who were with Him for three and a half years. They had the opportunity to ask questions and to receive corrections and further insights into what being a disciple meant. Few new converts experience this type of community, which allows for accountability and spiritual growth in caring small groups. Western societies are especially weak in this area. Too many never experience community, and some are allergic to the intimacy and accountability associated with small discipleship groups.

#### Discipleship Must Address All Areas of Life

Discipleship must also address all areas of life. Unfortunately, many Seventh-day Adventists do not look or act much different from the rest of the people in their cultural setting. A disciple of Jesus Christ does not live a compartmentalized life, acting and looking a certain way on Sabbath, but living like the rest of society Sunday through Friday. It is not enough to know the 28 faith statements and agree with them but never learn how to apply those statements to the contextual and cultural issues. Being disciples of Jesus Christ means people want to imitate Jesus in all areas of what they do and what they think.

#### Discipleship Must Be Contextual

Discipleship must also address the specific cultural issues faced in each specific culture. The “so what” of each of the 28 fundamental beliefs will be different in different contexts. If people live in cultures in which same-sex marriage and cohabitation are accepted lifestyles, discipleship must seek to address those issues. If fear of witchcraft and ancestral spirits are the issues, then discipleship must address those issues. In North America 40 percent of Christians “strongly agreed that Satan is not a living being but is a symbol of evil, [and] an additional . . . 19 percent said they agree somewhat” with that statement.<sup>7</sup> Thus, 59 percent of Christians plus a large percentage of the unchurched population do not believe in a real devil. In such a setting, teaching on the great controversy theme and on the existence and activity of the devil is needed. I worked in Cambodia for several years. The people there had no doubts about the existence of devils, evil spirits, and evil forces. In that context their discipleship needed to emphasize how God protects and cares for those who trust him. The idea of angels watching and protecting God’s people (Psalm 34:7) and the power of the Holy Spirit actually living in God’s people (1 John 4:4) were important points in the discipling process.

### The Goal: Contextual Discipleship

The goal of Adventist mission and ministry is a disciple who imitates what Jesus Christ would say and do if He lived in their cultural context. The Seventh-day Adventist Church needs members who have biblically shaped behavior, biblically shaped beliefs, but also biblically-shaped values and deep worldview assumptions. In other words, the Adventist Church needs to make sure that those they call to be Christ’s disciples apply the Word of God to the everyday challenges and issues of life. People can begin their walk with Christ just as they are, with their old values and assumptions—their old worldviews—but if they remain in those old worldviews, they will be stunted in their Christian walk and will continue to live with conflict and syncretism.<sup>8</sup> What is needed, especially when working with non-Christian peoples, is a much broader evangelistic approach than just a twoor three-week evangelistic series. Extended periods of Bible study, discipleship in small groups, and nurture that is contextual should be part of every person’s journey both before and after baptism.

In addition, I would recommend that much more emphasis should focus on topics that apply biblical principles to the people’s cultural issues. If Adventists continue the practice of having only short series of evangelistic meetings with poor or nonexistent after-baptism nurture and discipleship, the church will continue to bring people into membership who say they agree with the belief statements of our church, but who also continue to hold on to the cultural and contextual views of their old way of life.

In North America, if the Adventist Church continues to emphasize only the 28 fundamental beliefs as it prepares people for baptism, it will also find that Adventists are drifting further and further from having a biblically shaped view of cultural issues such as same-sex marriages, Halloween, the occult, cohabitation, divorce, and what appropriate behavior is when dating. If these topics are not included when preparing people for baptism, the Seventh-day Adventist Church will also discover that a growing number of people are joining the church with schizophrenic and conflicting views that will sooner or later stunt their Christian growth and development.

_Bruce L. Bauer is professor of World Mission at the Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary, holds a B.A. in Theology and an M.A. in Religion from Andrews University and an M.A. in Missiology and a Doctor of Missiology from Fuller Theological Seminary. The Bauers spent 23 years as missionaries in Japan, Guam Micronesia, and Cambodia. Bruce has taught in the Theological Seminary at Andrews University for 25 years and is currently the director of the Doctor of Missiology program and the editor of Journal of Adventist Mission Studies._

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Doug Greenwold,. “Being a First-Century Disciple” (2013), http://preservingbibletimes.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/Reflection-DRIP-5.pdf.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> David Trim, “The Global Church Member Survey” (2018), http://www.adventistresearch.org/sites/default/files/files/AC2018%20-%20Global%20Church%20Member%20Survey%20Data%20Report.pdf; Duane McBride, “The Global Church Member Survey: Encouragement and Challenges,” _Focus: The Andrews University Magazine 55_, no. 1 (winter, 2018): 9.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> Peter Dunn, “4 Discipleship Lessons from a Global Perspective” (2014), https://ethicsdaily.com/4-discipleship-lessons-from-a-global-perspective-cms-21906/.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>4</sup> Patrice Johnstone, _Operation World: The Day-by-Day Guide for Praying for the World_ (Grand Rapids: Zondervan, 1993), p. 472.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>5</sup> Dunn; Jane Thayer, _Teaching for Discipleship: Strategies for Transformational Learning_. (Berrien Springs, Michigan: LithoTech, 2015), pp. 137-140.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>6</sup> Thayer, pp. 137-140.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>7</sup> Barna Group, “Most American Christians Do Not Believe that Satan or the Holy Spirit Exist” (2009), https://www.barna.com/research/most-american-christians-do-not-believe-that-satan-or-the-holy-spirit-exist/.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>8</sup> Paul G. Hiebert, _Transforming Worldviews: An Anthropological Understanding of How People Change_. (Grand Rapids: Baker Academic, 2008), p. 11.