---
title: More Than Meets the Eye
subtitle: Karen Tracy
---

### Never miss a chance to share Jesus.

I thought we could certainly be friends. When he showed some interest in me, I felt happy someone who looked like him, carried himself as he did, would want to reach out to me. 

“Excuse me, miss? Can I ask you which blouse you think is prettier?”

I had been shopping at a nearby department store, distracted by the hope of a new, pretty dress that was cheaper than it looked, when he appeared before me.

Standing six feet one, with a big smile and kind eyes, the man about my age stared at me with genuine interest and inquiry. His gaze was flattering. 

“I like the blue one,” I said, after briefly examining both styles of choice. He stared at me for a moment longer, then gave a quick look at the blouse.

“OK, thank you,” he said, nodding his head. “Um, by the way, would you, by chance, like to go on a date sometime?”

I wasn’t attracted to him in the romantic sense. Though I wanted him as a friend, appearances alone didn’t generally draw me in as it did others.

“Are you a Christian?” I asked, smiling. 

“No,” he answered, his eyes deep. “But you can convert me.” 

I laughed at his response. I knew that wasn’t how it worked. Missionary dating isn’t always as successful as some hope it would be. I talked to him for a moment longer, sharing my faith, and delicately explaining how I consider dating only Christians (though in truth I barely had ever gone on a date in my life).

I left the store soon after that, not knowing how, just months later, that one interaction would change his and my life in so many ways.

#### Three months later

I didn’t speak to Adam until months after our interaction that day. But when I did, it wasn’t the same.

We ran into each other at another nearby store, where, surprised to see him, I greeted him with a warm and friendly smile. I could tell he was more surprised than I was to see him again. He looked different, stressed, and I asked him why. 

Though cautious at first, he ended up telling me about some scary things that had happened in his life. Apparently someone he knew had been accused of doing some terrible things that had the potential of escalating into a sad outcome for him and his family. 

I told him that I would pray. And that my friends would too.

He thanked me, but I could tell he didn’t take it that seriously. After all, from the brief moments I had shared with him, I could tell that he knew next to nothing about Christianity or God, and that he was a self-labeled agnostic. But still he seemed somewhat touched by my offer.

I pushed a bit more. I shared about the miracles I had seen in my life, about how God answers prayers even when it looks like an impossibility, speaking from an assurance that grew in my heart the more I shared. He listened—curious; interested. 

Weeks later he would see, for himself, God answer.

“Karen, I can’t believe this! This is amazing! Things turned around so rapidly! If God is real and answers prayers like this, everyone should know!” 

I had given Adam my number at our last meeting, something that was rare for me to do. It simply never felt safe to give random strangers my digits. But I sensed something was different about Adam. And that day, when I received his call, I was glad I had.

Adam had seen the answer to his prayer. He had seen things that seemed immovable turn around for his family. And right then he started to believe, to ask questions. I could tell God was drawing him to Himself, and it was an amazing thing to see. 

I could write a book about the miraculous events that occurred in Adam’s life, one after another, that eventually led to his becoming a baptized Christian, turning from his old self and embracing a brand-new life in Jesus. But space limits me.

Only allow me to share that I had little to do with this story, while God had everything. All Adam needed was to hear about Him, to see and believe, and it was a done deal from there. This shows so clearly, to me at least, that you shouldn’t dismiss someone based on what you see on the surface, or because of how unlikely you think it would be for them to be converted. Rather, share your story, if they’ll listen. Share the good news. Maybe one day, as you share, you will see, as I did with Adam, how one small seed of faith takes root and changes a whole life more than you ever imagined it could. 

---

_Karen Tracy is a pseudonym._