---
title: Clarify
subtitle: Week 3
---

Having clear spiritual goals is essential to parenting with purpose.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

Take a look at each person’s family photo from when you were small.

Share three words to describe yourself as a child.

- If you could summarize your family’s life motto in one word or phrase, what would it be?

Acknowledge that some parents were not able, for whatever reason, to care for the children in a loving, caring, and nurturing atmosphere. Nevertheless, God promises to care for and heal those who grew up in such situations. Psalm 27:10 says, “When my father and my mother forsake me, then the Lord will take care of me.” Also, as we learn and grow, God can help us to create a healthier, happier home than the one we may have grown up in.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

**Read Matthew 15:8, 9** aloud in more than one translation.

Spiritual parenting can be approached in two ways:\
We can try to teach our children to (1) know about God, or we could help them come to (2) know God personally.

- What’s the difference between these two approaches?
- What might knowing about God look like, sound like, and feel like in your home?
- What might knowing God personally look like, sound like, and feel like?
- Is there any overlap between goal 1 and goal 2?
- Of these goals, which is easier?
- What could you put in place over time to ensure that both goals are met, but the second goal has priority?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

Which of the following would you give an exclamation mark (!) to because it captures something that will help with your parenting goals:

- “The Lord does not see as man sees; for man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart” (1 Samuel 16:7).
- “Let the word of God speak to the heart. Let those who have heard only tradition and human theories and maxims hear the voice of Him who can renew the soul unto eternal life” (Ellen G. White, _Prophets and Kings_, p. 626).
- “[God is] on our side all the time, walking beside us, encouraging us, even carrying us in moments of extreme despair. Your children discover the nature and reality of spiritual love by experiencing your love” (Donna Habenicht, _How To Help Your Child Really Love Jesus_, p. 10).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

- How will the goal of helping your child know God, His character, and His ways affect your decisions about some of the following aspects of childhood?
  - [ ] Toys
  - [ ] Leisure time
  - [ ] Family worship
  - [ ] Discipline
  - [ ] Media
  - [ ] Friendships
  - [ ] Sabbath
- How might your decisions today impact your ultimate goals?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Commit

This week, take time to discuss with your spouse or a friend your intentional decisions about this challenge (above).

- What new insight has God given you from your sharing that you’d like to take seriously in your parenting?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, “Lord, now that we have a clearer goal, help us to . . .”

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-01-bb-pth/01/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Ask God to help you cultivate a home environment\
that nurtures the spiritual growth of your children.\
Pray that your children will truly know God and have their\
own personal relationship with Him.