---
title: Secrets Of A Happy Home
---

> <p></p>
> “And Jesus and his disciples had also been invited to the wedding” (John 2:2).

The dream of every human being is to have a solid, happy home. Many people take great measures to establish a strong marriage. We choose the person we think is ideal, the companion with whom we will share all the special moments of our life. We want everything to come together precisely as planned because our happiness is at risk. But gradually, many couples have seen their castles fall down. What should have been a dream can soon become a nightmare that destroys and hurts, resulting in wounds that may never heal.

In the wedding at Cana in Galilee we find three secrets for a success ful marriage. The first secret is clear in verse two, which says: “...

Jesus was also invited.” Many couples are worried about all the details of a wedding ceremony but forget the basics—to invite Jesus to be part of the marriage. The best relationships in the world involve three people: God, the husband, and the wife. The presence of Jesus in our wedding does not assure that we will never have any problems, but it does assure us we will have the power to manage our homes.

In verse five of John 2 we find the second secret: “Do whatever He tells you.” If we had in ourselves the predisposition to leave our will subor dinate to the will of Jesus we would scarcely think about doing what pleases our hearts, but what pleases the heart of God. And if we wonder, “What exactly is the Lord asking me to do?” we will find the answer in the Word of God. To husbands, the Bible says, “Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her” (Eph. 5:25). To wives, God calls, “Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands as you do to the Lord” (verse 22). The woman will give her love, kindness, and affection in submission to her own husband. To parents, Jesus asks, “Fathers, do not exasperate your children” (Eph. 6:4). And, finally, to children comes this guidance: “Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right” (verse 1).

The third secret is to develop a living and active relationship. Notice what John 2:6, 7 says: “Nearby stood six stone water jars, the kind

used by the Jews for ceremonial washing, each holding from twenty to thirty gallons. Jesus said to them: ‘Fill the jars with water’; So they filled them to the brim.” These jars were to always be filled with water, ready to be used for the service of purifying the home. The fact that the jars were empty shows that home religion was not being cultivated. The empty jars pointed to an empty religion.

Unfortunately we must admit that in many professed Christian homes these three secrets are not being consistently followed. The results are broken families, neglected children, resentment, and misery. Jesus desires to be present in your home, just as He was at the wedding in Cana. Will you invite Him to come in?

_Pastor Juracy Santiago Castelo – Central Brazil Conference_