---
title: Love in Practice
subtitle: Luise Schneeweiss
---

### LGBTQ and the church

The Seventh-day Adventist Church has a clear biblical position on human sexuality, as well as same-sex marriage.1 When we meet a person struggling with same-sex attraction, however, we quickly realize that it is not just about a doctrine, but about people and their lives. The personal encounter, the empathetic insight into the lives of friends, makes a big difference.

While we have no reason to abandon our biblically based sexual ethics, there is a great need for us to consider the way we relate to and provide pastoral care for affected individuals. This article suggests approaches for ministry toward individuals struggling with their sexuality.

#### Inform Yourself

To love means to be willing to learn (see book recommendations on page 34). When it comes to LGBTQ issues, there are a few misconceptions that need to be cleared up.

First, a person’s sexual orientation (which gender someone feels attracted to) is recognized during one’s life. The realization that they do not feel heterosexual is a shock for many Christians. Just as difficult is the experience of feeling trapped in the wrong body and struggling with one’s sexual identity.

Many Adventists are not sufficiently aware of the differentiation between sexual orientation and sexual behavior. The Bible does not speak about the phenomenon of sexual orientation.2 It talks about same-sex behavior.

In pastoral care it is problematic to declare someone’s orientation itself a sin, even if it is a consequence of our fallen nature. Christians with same-sex feelings often suffer from feelings of shame and guilt. But temptation in itself is not sin.

Biblically, there is nothing to prevent a person tempted with homosexual feelings from being baptized, working in the church, or even holding a leadership position if they reject the temptation.

The early church included people who used to have same-sex intercourse (1 Cor. 6:9-11). The text clarifies that this was a past thing, although the inclination may have still existed in some of them. They were not seen as second-class Christians because of their inclinations.

Our primary identity lies in Christ, not in gender or sexual orientation, as existentially close as these may be to us. Therefore, there is no reason to reduce people to their sexuality. Everyone has a place in our church regardless of their sexual orientation.

#### How Do I React When Someone Comes Out?

If someone considers you safe to reveal their sexual orientation to and comes out to you, prove yourself worthy of their trust! Be discreet. Maintain the relationship and pray for them, even if they make decisions you don’t support. Continuously show love and acceptance of the person (not the sin).

Don’t withdraw from the person as if their orientation is contagious. If you feel disgust, hatred, or discomfort, be sure to deal with it prayerfully until you come to a different attitude (see Mark 2:16, 17).

Refrain from moralizing. This does not mean that you must hide your biblical position. It will come up anyway. But bear witness to the truth in the greatest possible love, and leave room for the work of the Holy Spirit. Remember, we can encourage and support people on their journey of faith regardless of church membership or their behavior. God can work with them and guide them in how they should shape their lives. This is a lifelong process, so be patient.

#### No False Promises

Some Christians think that enough prayer and faith will set you free from your homosexual orientation. (This is often accompanied by the idea that the orientation itself is considered sinful and must therefore be overcome.) Now we know that all things are possible with God, and there certainly are testimonies of people who have had such a transformation take place. Nevertheless, this simplified understanding is problematic, especially when the reverse conclusion is drawn: If your feelings don’t change, you obviously have too little faith! People have suffered emotional and spiritual damage as a result, for example, in so-called conversion therapies.

The causes of homosexual orientation are controversial. Some consider it to be genetically determined, and rule out any change. Others attribute it mainly to developmental problems (trauma, family ties), and make speculations that are overreaching. Current research assumes a complex interplay of several factors.3 There is no simple universal explanation for everyone.

As biographical and personality-related influences can play a role, some people find therapeutic support helpful. This, however, should not be associated with the goal or promise that you will feel heterosexual afterward, even if some have experienced minor or major changes during their lives.

#### Opening Up Life Prospects

The solution for people with homosexual feelings is not to “pray them back to health,” but to give them an attractive perspective even in case their sexual orientation persists, and to accompany them in living faithfully to God and His Word.

We need to create a church culture that makes it possible to live a meaningful, happy life without marriage.

Unfortunately, our natural emphasis on marriage and family often results in marriage becoming the status symbol of being a “good Christian” or a reward for spiritual maturity or prayer. This marginalizes the unmarried people and harms LGBTQ people by seemingly depriving them of an attractive life perspective.

Our society views a life without romance and sex as unhealthy and unrealistic. However, Scripture begs to differ. The Bible presents two possible models of life: marriage (a metaphor for Christ and the church) and singleness (modeled by Jesus, who was fully human but not sexually active). Both are equally valuable!

It is often claimed that a life as a single person is realistic for only a few people and that most would fail at it. There exists a common misconception that celibacy requires a special calling or gift, and that this is recognized by feeling drawn to it. Thousands of Christians, however, are living celibate lives (single, widowed, separated, or divorced) who did not plan or choose to do so. Yet they are called because God’s call is not necessarily into marriage or singleness, but within it! Those who are married are called to live a Christian marriage; those who are currently unmarried are called to live a Christian single life. Our task is to support each person in their walk with God, embrace a new perspective on friendship, and be a church that is not divided by marital status. Let’s not allow marriage to be the only place people can connect deeply!

#### An Emotional Home

Honest, deep conversations; hugs; fun; joint activities; vacations—we should become much more creative in giving the ever-growing group of unmarried people an emotional home. Ultimately people go where they are loved and feel they belong! Do we have something to offer? Whether we can continue credibly to defend our teaching on marriage and sexuality will be decided, not by more theological lectures only, but in the lived practice of the church.

No matter how lovingly and thoughtfully you present your biblical point of view, however, it can always be read as homophobic and inhumane from the perspective of a secular culture. It is simply not “politically correct.” Nevertheless, our sexual ethics has missionary potential. It can show the world a love that is greater than sex, and a family whose cohesion cannot be explained without the God of love. “By this everyone will know that you are my disciples” (John 13:35, NIV). 

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> See statements of the General Conference (“Homosexuality” and “Same-Sex Unions”): https://www.adventist.org/official-statements/homosexuality/ and https://www.adventist.org/documents/same-sex-unions/.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Although it was apparently already known in antiquity, see, e.g., Bernadette J. Brooten, Love Between Women (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1998); Thomas Hubbard, Homosexuality in Greece and Rome (Berkeley, Calif.: University of California, 2003).

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> See, e.g., Andrea Ganna, “Large-Scale GWAS Reveals Insights Into the Genetic Architecture of Same-Sex Sexual Behavior,” Science 365 (2019), eaat7693, DOI: 10.1126/science.aat7693; Dean Hamer, “Comment on ‘Large-Scale GWAS Reveals Insights Into the Genetic Architecture of Same-Sex Sexual Behavior,’ ” Science 371 (2021), aba2941, DOI: 10.1126/science.aba2941.

---

Luise Schneeweiss, M.A., theologian and musician at Bogenhofen Seminary, works for the Seventh-day Adventist Single Women Ministries of the Austrian Union of Churches.