---
title: Identity
subtitle: Week 12
---

How we see ourselves as parents will often be reflected in our children.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ How would you describe yourself in three words?
+ What factors have most contributed to your personal identity?

Too often our identity comes from the praise and affirmation of others (or lack of), what we have (or don’t have), or what we do (or can’t do). Yet each of these things are fleeting. We need something greater that helps define us and our children.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

+ When you think of Bible characters who faced an identity crisis, who first comes to mind?
+ Which Bible characters had a strong identity, and what factors contributed to this?

Invite one person to read the entire story in John 4:1-42. Then, as a group, discuss:

+ How would you describe Jesus in this story?
+ At what point does the woman begin to change her attitude toward Jesus? (Notice Jesus’ words at this point. See verses 13, 14.)
+ How did the woman’s identity change after meeting Jesus? Where do you see this in the text?

Jesus openly declared His identity to this woman, after He plainly stated hers. She left her waterpot to rush back to the city to tell them about Jesus, the Messiah. From that moment on, she didn’t care about the town’s gossip, her past sinful life, or what she owned (her waterpot). She had met Jesus, and nothing could stop the change happening inside of her.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect

Jesus also seeks us out—when we’re alone or lonely, when we’re feeling criticized or that we’re a failure, when we feel inadequate or self-sufficient. He comes to us. He challenges our status quo and brings to light our deep need for Him.

+ What do you need to surrender to truly live out your identity as God’s son or daughter? (Think about expectations of others, work, reputation, pleasure.)

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Share

There may be someone in the group who is willing to share how God has shaped or is shaping their identity in new ways. Like the woman at the well, consider sharing your story of how you’ve met God.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Sing and Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Sing together or read the words from the hymn “Take My Life and Let It Be.”
\
Spend a few moments in individual prayer, inviting God to shape your\
identity in Him rather than in the shifting things of the world.\
He will steady you and carry you.