---
title: How To Improve Your Marriage
---

> <p></p>
> “Love one another deeply, from the heart” (1 Peter 1:22).

A couple was celebrating their 50th wedding anniversary. The local newspaper sent a reporter to interview them. The husband was at home alone at the time, so the reporter asked him, “What is the recipe for a happy and lasting marriage?”

“Well, I will tell young man”, said the old husband slowly, “Sarah was my first and only girlfriend. When she thought we ought to get mar ried, I trembled. Then, after the wedding her father asked to speak with me privately. He handed me a small package and said, ‘Here is every thing you really need to know to have a happy marriage.’ Inside the box was a gold watch.” He held the watch up for the reporter to see. Then he held it closer so the man could read what was etched on the face of the watch. It said, “Say something kind to Sarah today!” The old man smiled and said, “It was very simple, but it really worked.”

Here are five more recipes to improve your marriage. As you read these, remember, no home is perfect, no marriage is without fault. All couples have their unique challenges. What is most important is to focus on making each other happy.

1. Do not compare your marriage with other marriages. Treat your marriage as a unique relationship. All marriages have challenges. Keep Jesus as your standard.
2. Review your marriage goals on a regular basis. Where are you falling short? You should do this at least once a year. What area needs improvement? Where do you have conflict? How much time do you spend together?
3. Talk to each other. It is not enough to be together. Someone once said that without television commercials people would never talk to each other. A wife once complained that she did not have enough time to resolve problems with her husband because television commercials were too short!
4. Manage your finances together. The three biggest problems in a typical marriage are money, sex, and in-laws. Financial problems are much greater that you might think. It is important to set a budget and follow it. Money is a very sensitive area of conflict in a lot of marriages.
5. Share affectionate words with each other. Remember the kind notes and cards from your dating years? Keep giving to your spouse loving words. Compliment her hairstyle, his tie, the food, the work... If there is genuine love, it will be shown in our words and actions. Repeating tender words helps keep the romance alive. Say “I love you” often and then seal it with a heartfelt kiss!

Remember the words in our opening Bible verse: “Love one another deeply, from the heart!” (1 Peter 1:22).

_—Moysés S. Nigri, Walking with God Every Day, p. 345_