---
title: Give and Become Wealthy
date: 08/23/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> Give freely and become more wealthy; be stingy and lose everything. Proverbs 11:24 (NLT)

### Observation

Not every kind of scattering brings an increase. Careless giving often does harm both to the giver and to the receiver; but the loving, thoughtful endeavor to use one’s means to alleviate the sufferings and aid the struggles of those in need, brings wealth to both. The more the giver’s means are used to help others, the more he receives. The same is true of contributions made for the work of God (see v. 25). Withholding more than is right tends to poverty, both spiritual and material. [The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, Volume 3. 1977 (F. D. Nichol, Ed.) (986). Review and Herald Publishing Association.]

### Application

The Bible teaches of the blessings of generosity in various places. Just a couple will suffice: “Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort the brethren to go to you ahead of time, and prepare your generous gift beforehand, which you had previously promised, that it may be ready as a matter of generosity and not as a grudging obligation.” (2 Cor 9:5) “So let each one give as he purposes in his heart, not grudgingly or of necessity; for God loves a cheerful giver.” (2 Cor. 9:7).

Often we think of generosity in respect to money or things, which is true and accurate. God has blessed us with so much we take for granted. Generosity in returning God’s tithe and in giving of what we have left for the church and to help others was not just a good plan from God to keep His church going; He wanted to teach us lessons of generosity because it is indeed good for us. Those who hoard their blessings end up paranoid that everyone is out to get them and rob them and they end up being lonely and sad. Stories abound of people who have given large amounts of money to benefit others. Many of those stories are about people that others thought were poor, or who limited themselves to living in meager conditions but gave generously to others in greater need.

But when the Proverbs say to give freely I think it also refers to the time, the kindness, the attention, the help, and the love we give to those closest to us and even to those we are not related to. Don’t be stingy with these things, starting with your spouse, your children, your family. It is as if sometimes we reserve these things for others or we just simply don’t share any with anybody. The result is similar to those that hoard their money. . . we become lonely, cold, and sad. It is like Ebenezer Scrooge, rich but lonely and sad.

Give generously of yourself, starting with those closest to you. . . you will be richer than when you try to keep it all to yourself.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, Help us to recognize that everything belongs to you and you give us so much more than we deserve. In return, Father, as you have blessed us, help us to be generous so we may share your blessings with others.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._