---
title: How to Start a Church-based Bible School
---

### Follow These Steps

1. Seek the Lord earnestly in prayer.
2. Study this pamphlet carefully and tentatively list the needed personnel.
3. Prepare a Participation Form that includes the various activities and positions needed to operate the school. (A sample is included at the end of this pamphlet).
4. Preach a dynamic, spirit-filled, Christ-centered sermon on witnessing which includes:
   - An introduction to the church-based Bible school concept, utilizing any available promotional video or DVD. (See Resources.)
   - Experiences by individuals who have responded to personal Bible studies or Bible study materials.
   - An appeal for helpers. Distribute the Participation Form, pray together, go through it together, and collect responses. Collect the forms before dismissal. (It will show what people are most interested in and will provide a list of individuals from whom needed personnel can be selected.)
5. Meet with the church board. (Successful schools have found it critical to have the full support of the pastor and the church board. This support is more sure after the sermon and the congregation’s response.)
   - Discuss the concept and the congregation’s response to the participation form.
   - Vote to organize the school as the umbrella organization of the full Bible study outreach of the church.
   - Select and vote a name for the Bible school.
   - Select a supervisor and an associate supervisor for the school. Each should be a person with a strong desire to do outreach:
     - one with organizational skills, capable of training others,
     - and one who can coordinate well with the pastor and other leaders.
   - Decide on a room or other area for the school that provides space for individual lessons to be organized and readily available, a filing cabinet as well as work space, etc.
6. Obtain a Post Office Box for the Bible school name chosen by the church board. (Never use the church street address.)
7. Prepare and get church board approval of the Bible school budget.
8. Order lessons and other needed materials.
9. Register the school and, if possible, local zip codes, with the existing local conference/ mission Bible school so that interest names can receive immediate follow up. (Voice of Prophecy headquarters schools often have on record the postal zip codes which all local schools have agreed to service. They immediately send to the local schools all interests they receive from those areas.)
10. Select and train the team to operate the school. Depending on the size of the church, this would include:
   - The supervisor and associate, mentioned above.
   - A leader for each of the five methods— mentioned above with details to follow—decided upon for this Bible school
   - Prayer ministry coordinator
   - Interest coordinator
   - Visitation coordinator
   - Bible school promotion leader
   - Individuals to assist with grading, record keeping, supplies, etc.
   - Missionary leaders from Sabbath School Action Units (The goal should be to involve as many as possible. In small churches some may care for more than one activity.)
11. Prepare an interest list. Call and obtain names of Bible study and program interests from all Adventist radio and television and publishing organizations including Literature Evangelist paid-out accounts and missionary and health magazine interests. The Interest Coordinator can combine these with the church interest list for the use of the Bible school.
12. Establish a prayer ministry if your local church does not already have one.
13. Involve and train members in how to find people who are willing to study the Bible. (See 15 methods below.)
14. Share appropriate experiences every week in Sabbath School, during the worship service, in newsletters, etc, to inspire others to participate.
15. Set up a Sabbath lesson distribution center with cubicles of lessons in a visible location like the lobby of the church.
16. Provide lessons to the Sabbath School Action Units or classes.
17. Utilize the assistance that is available from your local pastor, conference/mission leadership, and, if possible from the Voice of Prophecy via newsletters, telephone consultation, seminars, rallies, etc.
18. Be sure to operate the Bible school in advance of, during, and after all reaping meetings.
19. Plan on making the church-based Bible school a permanent soul winning means until Jesus comes.