---
title: Share Him
subtitle: Week 11
---

Have you ever pictured yourself preaching on a street corner or giving a complex Bible study and had thoughts such as these? _Not me! No way! I’m an introvert. Witnessing isn’t in my comfort zone._

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ What are your barriers to sharing your faith with others?
+ What prompts you to share, and what do you share?

True witnessing is just the result of being an eyewitness to what God is doing in your life. It’s about noticing what He is doing in your life as you grow in Him and sharing that with others. When we love Jesus, we’ll talk about Him, because it’s the most natural thing to do.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

+ **Read** Acts 1:8 and 4:13, 20. Discuss what witnessing was like for the early church.
+ In what ways are you “growing in grace and knowledge” (2 Peter 3:18)? How is this evident in your interactions with those around you?
+ How does Isaiah 50:4 encourage and challenge you?

Our most effective witness will come from our genuine love for others when we are loving and lovable. We should never try to force someone to accept God or His Bible truth. Coercion goes against the very heart of God’s character.

God didn’t force Adam and Eve to stay away from the tree of knowledge of good and evil (Genesis 2:16, 17). He didn’t force people into the ark to be saved from the Flood (Genesis 7:1). He didn’t force the Israelites to remain in their covenant with Him (Deuteronomy 4:29-31).

+ If coercion goes against God’s very character, how should this impact our interactions with our children and others?

Jesus never forced anyone to follow Him or His truth, but He also pursues a relationship with us and never gives up on us (Matthew 23:37). Instead, He drew close to people and showed sympathy while lovingly meeting their needs. He first won their confidence, then challenged their thinking, and invited them to follow Him (see Matthew 4:23-25 and Ellen G. White, _The Ministry of Healing_, p. 73). As we witness to others, our approach should always mirror Jesus’ approach.

We can ask the Holy Spirit to work in us to point others to God. It’s often our own personal testimony that will carry the most weight, particularly in the early stages of sharing Jesus with others (Revelation 12:11).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

+ When it comes to giving a nonbeliever a Bible study, where might you begin?
+ Why is love and genuine interest so foundational and essential for any kind of effective witnessing?

“His word was in my heart like a burning fire shut up in my bones; I was weary of holding it back, and I could not” (Jeremiah 20:9).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

+ What from your own life can you share with others? What do you appreciate and love about God and His character?
+ Consider sharing it with a friend, colleague, or this small group.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Earnestly pray for God to lead you to someone who is seeking Him. Ask\
God for more of His love. “Let us continue to love one another, for love\
comes from God. Anyone who loves is a child of God and knows God”\
(1 John 4:7, NLT). Pray for this kind of love, a burden for the souls of\
others, and boldness and wisdom to share with them.