---
title: Enough Is Enough
date: 08/03/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> "You have sown much, and bring in little; You eat, but do not have enough; You drink, but you are not filled with drink; You clothe yourselves, but no one is warm; And he who earns wages, Earns wages to put into a bag with holes." . . . 9You looked for much, but indeed it came to little; and when you brought it home, I blew it away. Why?" says the LORD of hosts. "Because of My house that is in ruins, while every one of you runs to his own house. Haggai 1:6, 9

### Observation

Ironically, far from leaving them satisfied and content, the people’s focus on their own priorities leaves them hungry, thirsty, and penniless. The implication is that they are experiencing divine judgment for their disobedience (see Deut. 28:38–40), just as their ancestors had who were taken into exile. [Andrews Study Bible Notes. 2010 (J. L. Dybdahl, Ed.). Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press.]

Bag with holes. A striking figure of the lack of prosperity which Judah suffered because the people were not zealous in the Lord’s service. Such is the inevitable result of a materialistic philosophy of life. For comment on the relative value of spiritual and material things and the importance of making first things first see on Matt. 6:24–34; 19:21, 22. [The Seventh©day Adventist Bible Commentary, Volume 4. 1977 (F. D. Nichol, Ed.). Review and Herald Publishing Association.]

### Application

What the prophet Haggai describes as taking place in Israel is so descriptive also of the attitude of so many in our day. People continue to work themselves to death in order to have the bigger house, the newer car, the latest electronic gadget, the finest clothes, the largest bank account. In that desperate search to be number one, the most famous, the fastest, the best, many have neglected, if not destroyed, what is really most important. Athletes have been injected with steroids and have grown in physical strength, wealth, and prominence only to be found out and stripped of their gold, their income, and their fame. Movie stars have gone in and out of rehabilitation centers, and many have even lost their lives or taken their lives while their loyal fans adore and even envy them.

One does not have to look at the rich and famous for this desire to be the best and have the most. At our place of work there are people willing to do anything to rise to the top. They will lie, cheat, betray co-workers, take credit for the work others have done, anything to be considered for higher positions in the company. At school, some students plagiarize assignments, pay others to do their work, or cheat on exams so they can have the best of grades.

Even in church we sometimes see people who want a particular position in church – they want to be the head deacon, the head elder, or the leader in some department. Some will even try to undermine the pastor or the church leaders in their pursuit of power, position, and control. It’s as if unless they are at the top they will not be happy.

Haggai puts things into a different perspective. The pursuit of happiness in wealth, power, control, fame, or anything else apart from God does not bring lasting satisfaction or true happiness. Looking to ourselves, or to others, rather than outside ourselves brings hopelessness and despair. It is in looking outside of ourselves, to God, that we can find true satisfaction, true joy, true happiness.

> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, help us to remove the focus off of ourselves and to turn our eyes toward you and toward the pursuit of helping others find you.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._