---
title: 15 Ways to Enroll People in a Bible Course
---

(You may use only one or a few of these suggestions, and you may think of others.)

**1. Enroll Friends**:

Enroll friends, family, co-workers, neighbors, and casual daily contacts using lesson #1 or an enrollment card.

**2. Electronic Media and Publications**:

Enroll media and publication interests by letter, telephone, or personal visitation. (These names are excellent, since they have already developed an interest in spiritual things.)

**3. The Church Interest List**:

Visit those on the church interest list or send an enrollment card with a letter.

**4. Mass Distribution**:

Bulk mail enrollment cards.

**5. For a Friend**:

Students enrolling their friends really works. Write, “For one of your friends” on a “Post-it” note, attach it to an enrollment card and include it in the envelope with the student’s answer sheet.

**6. Personal Delivery House-to-House**:

Do house-to-house visitation using Bible lesson guide #1 or an enrollment card.

**7. Community Survey**:

Conduct a door-to-door survey as a way of getting enrollments.

*8. Cooperative Advertising*:

Mail enrollment cards in cooperative advertising envelopes. Companies often solicit advertising from a number of businesses and include them in one envelope for mailing.

*9. Cards in Personal Mail*:

Enclose an enrollment card with utility, credit card, and other payments; and with Christmas, birthday, anniversary, and graduation cards; and in other personal mail.

*10. Newspaper Inserts*:

Have Bible study enrollment cards or specially designed newspaper inserts blown into the local newspaper.

*11. Display Ads*:

Sponsor ads in newspapers, newsletters, or local magazines.

*12. Bulletin Board Ads*:

Place ads on bulletin boards in stores, laundromats, and other public places.

**13. Free Take One Cardholders**:

Place “Free Take One” enrollment card holders in strategic locations in your community and keep them filled.

**14. TV/Radio Spots**:

Use TV/Radio advertising spots immediately following religious broadcasts or at other times.

**15. Telephone Survey**:

Call names listed in the telephone book and invite them to enroll.

The ultimate goal for running a Bible school is to bring people to Jesus and into church fellowship.