---
title: Whose god do you walk with?
date: 17/05/2025
---

_Claudio Consuegra, DMin_

> <p>Scripture</p>
> For all people walk each in the name of his god, But we will walk in the name of the LORD our God Forever and ever. Micah 4:5 (NKJV)

### Observation

The Commentary Critical and Explanatory of the Whole Bible provides this explanation of vs. 5: For—rather, Though it be that all people walk after their several gods, yet we (the Jews in the dispersion) will walk in the name of the Lord. . . The resolution of the exile Jews is: As Jehovah gives us hope of so glorious a restoration, notwithstanding the overthrow of our temple and nation, we must in confident reliance on His promise persevere in the true worship of Him, however the nations around, our superiors now in strength and numbers, walk after their gods [Rosenmuller]. As the Jews were thoroughly weaned from idols by the Babylonian captivity, so they shall be completely cured of unbelief by their present long dispersion (Zec 10:8–12). (Jamieson, R., Fausset, A. R., & Brown, D. (1997). Commentary Critical and Explanatory on the Whole Bible. Oak Harbor, WA: Logos Research Systems, Inc.)

### Application

Today’s gods are abundant. Work, money, beauty, entertainment, possessions, power, prestige, toys, knowledge, titles, etc. Entire families compete with other families trying to keep up with them, looking for the happiness they see in others. . . without realizing that often “the grass is greener on the other side of the fence.” Many parents sacrifice quality family, or one-on-one time together by enrolling their children in every extra-curricular activity they can think of – soccer, karate, music lessons (not just one but several instruments), dance, theater, cheerleading, beauty contests, etc. Children, not to say their parents, are often exhausted at the end of each day, and as the weekend approaches, instead of rest and worship time what awaits them is another long list of activities (camping, games, parties, etc.). The frantic pace of their lives, the lack of down time, the absence of family time is driving them farther apart and leaving them depleted of energy for each other, much less for their time with God.

Parents need to set their priorities straight by establishing first a personal time and connection with God, then a couple’s time with each other and with God, and finally family time together and with God. As Eugene Petereson paraphrases this text in The Message: “Meanwhile, all the other people live however they wish, picking and choosing their gods. But we live honoring GOD, and we're loyal to our God forever and ever. Micah 4:5 (MSG).> <callout>A Prayer You May Say</callout>
> Father God, Help us to maintain a personal daily connection with You, as well as couple and family time with each other and with You. Bless us as the gods of this world call for our attention away from You.

_Used by permission of Adventist Family Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._