---
title: "Correspondence"
subtitle: Method 2
---

Operating a Bible school by mail is a simple procedure once you have personnel, a P. O. Box (never use a street address), a place to work, and materials in hand.

### Basic Needs

**Supplies**:

1. Bible lessons and enrollment cards. (Order many more of the first few lessons.)
2. Window mailing envelopes with the Bible school return address for sending lessons to the students.
3. Return envelopes with the Bible school address for the students to use in returning their answer sheets.
4. Postage stamps.
5. Student record forms or a computer record system.
6. Rubber stamp with your Bible school address on it.
7. Labels on which to put the student’s name and address.
8. Labels with the Bible school address on them. (Unless you have envelopes and lessons printed, or use the rubber stamp on envelopes and lessons, you will need three of these labels every time you send out a lesson.)

**Equipment Needs**:

1. A computer and printer, or a typewriter.
2. A three-ring letter-size notebook with an alphabetical separator to file the student record sheets.
3. A postal scale.
4. Work tables for those correcting answer sheets, and for those filling envelopes and other activities.
5. Access to a duplicating machine.
6. A pigeonhole setup for each of the individual guides and answer sheets.

### Procedures

When a request for Bible lessons is received, enter the name in the record system. (A sample student record form is included in Appendix D.)

Type three labels of the student’s name and address: one for answer sheet #1; one for answer sheet #2; and the third one for future use, such as reminder letters and invitations to evangelistic meetings or other events.

Place the following items in a window mailing envelope (with the Bible school return address on it):

1. A welcome letter from the Bible school. (See the sample in Appendix B.)
2. Bible guide #1 and answer sheet #1 with the address of the school on it. Affix the student’s name and address label to the answer sheet so that it will show through the window of the envelope.
3. A return envelope with the school address on it for the student to use to return the answer sheet for grading.

Pray for the student before mailing each guide and answer sheet.

Pray daily for the student.

### What to Do When the Student Does Not Respond

After 14 days with no response, automatically mail guide and answer sheet #2 with a reminder letter (see suggested reminder letter in Appendix C) and a return envelope with a postage stamp on it. People don’t like wasting a stamp and it is an incentive to mail the answer sheet back.

If there is no response, in another 2 weeks mail another reminder letter, or make a telephone call or a visit as described below. The visit usually works best!

In visiting those who have not responded to Guide #1 that was mailed, there are several considerations. The following can be adapted for use with other lessons and for both correspondence and personal Bible studies.

**Preparation**:

To save much time, especially with large numbers of interests, color code on a map various types of names you plan to visit. For example: You may choose to put missing members in one color, cooking school interests in another color, or age groups in various colors. You may want to separate Bible study, evangelistic meeting, and media interests into separate colors, etc.

Have several copies of guide #1 as you will have occasion to enroll new people.

Pray before, during, and after the visit.

### Suggested approach to a student who has read the guide but has not done the answer sheet

(Most people just need a little encouragement to get started with something new and unfamiliar).

“Good (evening). Are you [_]()? It is good to find you home [_](). I am [_]() and this is [_](). We represent the [_]() Bible School (Hold up Guide #1).

We can’t stay long, but we were wondering if you received the guide you ordered?”

If the answer is “Yes,” say, “Hundreds are thoroughly enjoying this free series. We’ve enjoyed it very much ourselves.

“You certainly made a wise choice in ordering it. “Were you able to read the first one yet?

(If read but not filled out, say): “I understand, it is a busy life, but, you know, I actually found it very easy to do.

“Could you bring your guide and let’s review a few of the answers together?” (If they don’t have the guide, use a new one.)

Turn to the answer sheet and say, “Notice the first question asks [_](). What would you say, after reading the guide, that the answer to that would be?”

When the answer is given, you ask the next one, get a response, and then hand the guide and pen to the student and say, “Now you are on your way. It is really easy isn’t it. Why don’t you answer the others? (or “Would like to finish it?”)

Let the student complete it with very little assistance. This will give him confidence. Discuss it briefly and say,

“I am going to leave you guide #2. I know you can have it done and sent off in a couple days.

“When your answer sheets are received, they will be graded and your questions will be answered.

Your corrected answer sheets along with lessons #3 and #4 will be sent to you.

You’ll be finished before you know it and receive a diploma, but more than that, your Bible knowledge will be greatly increased.”

Pull out an envelope and reach for your stamps and say, “To make it a little easier I’ll put the stamp on the envelope for you.”

### Suggested approach to a student who has not read the guide

When you discover the guide has not been read, say, “I understand. It is a busy life but you know, I actually found the guide very easy to do.

“It is made for busy people like you.

“It will take you only a few minutes to read it, fill out the answers, and mail it.

“I have confidence that it won’t take you long, so I am going to give you guide #2.

“If you prefer, I would be happy to stop by next week about this time and leave you the next two guides.

“If you have any questions, we can discuss them briefly.” (If they choose by mail, apply a stamp to the envelope.)

### Try to start a personal Bible study

If the interest is very good and if your schedule allows you to deliver and grade the lessons in the home, say:

“I plan to be in the area next week about this time and would be happy to review guide #2 with you and leave you guide 3 and 4. It was fun studying together today.” Arrange the time.

Offer videos, DVDs, participation in a small group or the internet if the student is not interested in correspondence or personal study in the home.

### Success Secrets:

1. Make prayer a vital part of grading.
2. Never give a grade less than “Good.”
3. Forming a relationship is essential.
4. Handwritten notes of encouragement such as: “You are doing a great job,” and/or “Keep up the good work” help the student to feel that his/her instructor is a friend.
5. If a question is asked that will be answered in a future lesson, tell them that, rather than trying to answer it now. This gives them an incentive to continue studying.
6. Be careful not to be too positive in responding to a student’s personal questions about his/her circumstances. You are usually hearing only one side of the story, and there is danger in leaping to conclusions.
7. Let the students know you are praying for them. Ask if they have prayer requests.
8. Record all decisions and responses on the student record sheet (such as the one in Appendix D), and make the pertinent information available to others from the Bible school who may visit the student.
9. Return answer sheets immediately.
10. Watch for indications of conviction and send an appropriate visitor immediately. Immediate follow-up is essential to success.
11. If possible, correspondence students should receive at least three personal visits from the same appropriate visitor: After the appeal to accept Christ; after the Sabbath is presented; and after the study guide makes an appeal for baptism. (Note decision methods below).
12. If possible, enroll the student in personal studies or a small group using the Bible course.
13. Pray over the lessons when they are ready to be mailed and ask the Prayer Ministry Coordinator to have the church members pray for the students.
14. Always invite the student to take another Bible course when they complete the current course.
15. Do faithful follow-up.
16. Conduct regular graduations and other special events for the students at the church. A graduation at the beginning of an evangelistic series is a good way to get students to attend.
17. It is very advisable that a Bible school be conducted during evangelistic meetings, followed by another graduation at the end of the series.
18. Visitation, prayer, and perseverance are essential.

And now we turn to the third method of the church-based Bible school.