---
title: Prayer
subtitle: Week 6
---

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
“Prayer is the opening of the heart to God as to a friend”

(Ellen. G. White, _Steps to Christ_, p. 93).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ Is this an accurate description of how you view prayer? If not, how else would you describe prayer?
+ Would you describe your prayer life as a blessing or a burden? What has contributed to this perspective?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.

+ When you think of people who were powered by prayer in the Bible, who comes to mind?

Moses is someone who had a strong prayer life. We can even read numerous accounts of Moses’ conversations with God. Through the ups and downs of this humble leader’s life, we see time and time again that the single most important part of his life, and the secret to his success as a godly leader, was his constant communication with God.

**Read** Exodus 33:15-23—one of the most beautiful prayers of Moses, along with God’s response. Notice and discuss both the content and the manner of their conversation.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Consider

On a scale of 1-5, how easy or hard is it to apply the following principles in your personal prayer life?

+ **Keep a clear picture of God’s character.** Exodus 34:6 reminds us, “The Lord God, merciful and gracious, longsuffering, and abounding in goodness and truth.” 
+ **Hold on to God through the ups and downs. Read** Exodus 33:13 to remember that we should trust God’s power, presence, or leading in our lives.
+ **Claim God’s promises**, knowing that He is faithful to lead in our future as He has in our past (Deuteronomy 8:2).

+ **Accept God’s answers to my prayers, whether it be a “yes” or a “no.”** Being in a close relationship with God doesn’t automatically mean we’ll always get what we want (Deuteronomy 3:23-29), but we should pray with persistence (Luke 18:1-8).

Believing these points to be true will help us when we don’t feel like praying.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect

The different parts of our prayers can include:

+ **Praise**: Expressing adoration for who God is and what He is like (see Psalm 100 as an example).
+ **Confession and forgiveness**: When we find ourselves close to God, we can’t help letting go of whatever might be holding us back or separating us from Him (read James 5:16). When did you last confess your sins to God—specifically mentioning certain sins that weigh you down, asking for forgiveness?
+ **Requests**: Lay your burdens down and share with God your specific needs, and the needs of others.
+ **Thanksgiving**: Think about the blessings in your life; the things you may often take for granted. Praise God for what He has done and for what He is doing.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

+ Which of these areas do you tend to include in your prayers the most, and which do you include the least?
+ Why is each area important?
+ Which of these areas do you want to include more in your personal prayers?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

Include each of these areas in your prayers this week. If possible, spend unrushed time with God as a friend. And remember to pray for your baby.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-02-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Pray in pairs for one another. Also pray for your babies—that they will\
come to love God and make prayer a big part of their little lives.