---
title: You Can Choose Life or Death
date: 04/07/2025
---

_Jim Cox_

> <p></p>
> Take heed, you senseless ones among the people; you fools, when will you become wise? Ps. 94:8, NIV.

Many years ago I worked for a worldwide finance company. At the time I was not a Seventh-day Adventist, and in fact knew very little about spiritual things.

My job involved contacting customers delinquent in paying their accounts. One day I visited the home of such a customer. The wife, who obviously was not having a very good day, greeted me at the door. My appearance on the scene only added to her unhappiness.

The husband, who was our customer, had just learned that he was going to have some of his toes amputated from one foot. Poor circulation had led to the problem. The doctor told him that he must quit smoking and drinking, and that he must change his lifestyle, or the other foot would be next.

The toes were amputated, and he went right on smoking and drinking. Several months later I contacted the family again, only to find that our customer was back in the hospital having his foot amputated. Did he quit smoking and drinking? No! He continued his habits and later had his leg amputated.

Continuing to smoke and drink, he lost the other leg about a year later. A few months after that, he died! He ignored all the warnings and continued his habits until his body could no longer take the punishment.

"Extreme case," you say. Hardly! This kind of thing goes on every day. I personally know people who have suffered heart attacks and have been warned to change their lifestyle, but have kept right on with their unhealthy habits. Their ignoring of their doctors' advice will eventually cause them even greater pain and suffering.

Unfortunately we humans tend to violate good counsel more than we follow it. God has given us information about how to keep our bodies healthy and live righteous lives, and He has asked us to be obedient to His will. When we do it, we will be healthy physically and spiritually. His ways are always the best. Isn't it time to stop our foolish unhealthy lifestyles and do what He says?

> <callout></callout>
> Dear Lord, help me not to foolishly live the way I want to live. Give me wisdom and willpower to live according to Your will. Amen.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._