---
title: Diet for the Year 2000
date: 04/02/2025
---

_Marilyn Renk_

> <p></p>
> Then God said, "I give you every seed-bearing plant on the face of the whole earth and every tree that has fruit with seed in it. They will be yours for food." Gen. 1:29, NIV.

The diet that scientists in the field of nutrition are advocating for the year 2000 is incredibly similar to the one God gave to Adam and Eve: fruits, grains, seeds, and nuts, plus the vegetables added at the time of the Fall. Eating this diet, even without access to the tree of life, human beings lived close to 1,000 years.

After the Flood people added clean meat, which resulted in a drastically shortened life span (Gen. 9:2, 3). This flesh-food diet has been the accepted human diet since!

Then in 1863 Ellen White began to speak out against meat. In 1864 she wrote: "Many die of disease caused wholly by meat eating; yet the world does not seem to be the wiser" (Counsels on Diet and Foods, p. 385). At the turn of the century, between 1902 and 1905, she made the following comments: "I am instructed to say that if ever meat eating were safe, it is not safe now" (ibid., p. 384). "Flesh was never the best food; but its use is now doubly objectionable, since disease in animals is so rapidly increasing" (ibid.). In 1902 she predicted, "It will not be long until animal food will be discarded by many besides Seventh-day Adventists" (ibid.).

Now, almost 100 years later, the prediction is coming true. In 1977 the scientific community finally admitted they were wrong to recommend meat and animal products as a primary source of good nutrition. And in 1992 they issued, based on scientific evidence, a new food guide, the Food Guide Pyramid, that looks amazingly similar to the eating plan recommended in the Bible. The foods they suggest that we should eat most frequently are low in fat and provide fiber, complex carbohydrates, vitamins, and minerals. These foods come from grains and plants; breads, cereals, rice, pasta, fruits, and vegetables.

God told us what to eat in the beginning, and although it has taken us thousands of years to realize that fact, we're finally coming around and accepting God's diet as the diet for the year 2000.

> <callout></callout>
> Challenge: take a look at your current eating pattern. Choose one small change you would be willing to make immediately to move closer to the plan of eating as God intended for optimal health.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._