---
title: Reflecting God’s Heart
subtitle: Week 13
---

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

If you feel comfortable, share of a time your heart has been full of love for God. How did this impact those around you?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Reflect in Review

Pray together. Then consider the various topics you’ve explored this quarter. As you reflect back on these topics, share a few insights that have contributed to your understanding of growing a heart that reflects God to your baby, both now and in the future.

1. ^[The Father’s Heart.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Imitating the Father’s love is a high calling.
2. ^[Counterfeit Love.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) False, self-serving worldly love surrounds us, yet we are called to reflect something different to our babies.
3. ^[Desire to Grow.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) As parents, knowing we can grow is the starting point for meaningful change.
4. ^[Affection.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) It’s important to communicate to our babies that they are wanted and important.
5. ^[Boundaries.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Lovingly guiding our babies, and teaching them obedience, is a foundational principle of love.
6. ^[Comfort.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) We can meet the emotional needs of our babies through comfort in distressing times.
7. ^[Encouragement.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) The encouragement we express reflects the courage we hope our babies will live by, knowing Jesus is with them.
8. ^[Discipline.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) We can gently train and direct our babies’ behavior so they can be faithful disciples of Jesus.
9. ^[Safety and Security.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) As parents, we should be a safe place for our babies to find security and rest.
10. ^[Patience.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Growing a heart of patience will reveal God’s heart to our babies.
11. ^[Worth.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) We are called to help our babies grow a healthy view of themselves and their worth in God.
12. ^[Identity.]({"style": {"text": {"color": "#a65726", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}) Our true identity comes from knowing we are God’s son or daughter.

Take turns sharing insights from the past few weeks. Which has been your favorite topic?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Read the following verses together.

Which one is your favorite? Share why with the person beside you.

+ Numbers 14:18
+ Psalm 103:11, 12
+ 1 John 4:8
+ Ezekiel 36:26
+ Psalm 51:10

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray Together]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Praise God for who He is and what He has taught you in recent times.\
Thank Him for a particular quality He has shown you in your\
parenting. Pray for the needs of those in your group. Give Him your\
worries and concerns, and trust that He will take care of them.\
\
^[Thank you for sharing throughout this quarter.]({"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}})\
\
“My son . . . receive my words,\
And treasure my commands within you,\
So that you incline your ear to wisdom,\
And apply your heart to understanding; . . .\
Then you will understand the fear of the Lord,\
And find the knowledge of God”\
(Proverbs 2:1-5).