---
title: The Lord’s Supper
---

The Lord’s Supper is a participation in the emblems of the body and blood of Jesus as an expression of faith in Him, our Lord and Savior. Preparation for the Supper includes self-examination, repentance, and confession. The communion service is open to all believing Christians. Matthew 26:17-30; John 6:48-63; 1 Corinthians 10:16, 17; 11:23-30.

Jesus ordained the service of foot-washing to signify renewed cleans- ing, to express a willingness to serve one another in humility, and to unite our hearts in love. We wash one another’s feet because Jesus taught us to do so. John 13:1-17.

Seventh-day Adventists use grape juice rather than fermented wine for the Lord’s Supper. When the word “wine” is used in the Bible, it can refer to either alcoholic wine or pure grape juice. Therefore, context must be considered to determine which was meant. Christ instituted the Lord’s Supper during Passover, a time when all leaven was to be removed from the premises. No process of decay such as leaven or fermentation, symbolizing sin and corruption, could rightly represent the perfect sacrifice of Christ—the “Lamb without blemish and without spot.” Isaiah 65:8; Exodus 12:8-20; 1 Corinthians 5:7; Hebrews 4:15; 1 Peter 1:19.

The Lord’s Supper is for those of sufficient age to make an intelligent commitment to Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Therefore, parents are encouraged to educate their children through observation rather than participation until after they are baptized. 1 Corinthians 11:27-29.

**My Commitment**: _I choose to participate in the foot-washing service modeled by Jesus and in the Lord’s Supper as a symbol of the forgiveness and salvation purchased for me on Calvary’s cross._