---
title: Life's Essence
date: 01/03/2025
---

_Marjorie V. Baldwin_

> <p></p>
> The wind blows wherever it pleases. You hear its sound, but you cannot tell where it comes from or where it is going. So it is with everyone born of the Spirit. John 3:8, NIV.

We can live weeks without food, days without water, but only minutes without air. Air conveys life, vigor, and electrifying energy to every cell of the body. The most vital element in air is oxygen.

How does the vitalizing power of oxygen get to every cell of the body? This is where the body’s delivery system, the blood circulation, cooperates. The heart sends blood singing on its way filled with red blood cells, whose hemoglobin picks up fresh oxygen in the lungs, and delivers it to every cell. There it exchanges the fresh oxygen for the carbon dioxide produced by the normal living processes of the cell, transporting it back to the lungs for removal from the body. Meanwhile the fluid part of blood carries indispensable nutrients to satisfy every hungry cell.

It reminds us of the two essential aspects of the Christian’s life—fellowship with Jesus and ministry to others. Constantly we receive the Holy Spirit’s life-giving, energizing power. And constantly we should share it with all we come in contact with.

That’s what life is all about. Fellowship with Jesus through the Holy Spirit, thereby receiving His strength, power, love, joy, and peace for the purpose of being more effective in our ministry to others. To others our lives can become God’s vital life-giving oxygen that helps sustain them through trial and discouragement.

> <callout></callout>
> Take three deep breaths and praise the Lord for the Holy Spirit—life’s true essence!

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._