---
title: Being a Trustworthy Envoy
date: 07/13/2025
---

_Jan W. Kuzma_

> <p></p>
> A wicked messenger falls into trouble, but a trustworthy envoy brings healing. He who ignores discipline comes to poverty and shame, but whoever heeds correction is honored. Prov. 13:17, 18, NIV.

Being overweight is a major health hazard. You may or may not fall into this category. But all of us have family and friends who do, and their good health is important to us. That's why we must do everything possible to be supportive and encouraging.

Few of us realize that obese people face three times the risk of heart disease, and are four times more likely to have high blood pressure. They also have five times greater risk of developing diabetes, and five times the likelihood of having elevated blood cholesterol.

Furthermore, overweight individuals face six times the chance of developing gallbladder disease, and they will also experience more cancer of the colon, rectum, breast, cervix, uterus, ovaries, and prostate than average-weight people.

But the list of hazards doesn't stop there. Health experts estimate that only 60 percent of obese people reach the age of 60, compared with 90 percent of those who aren't overweight.

A recent survey of Adventists showed that 24 percent considered themselves moderately or considerably overweight. And if you meet one who does, perhaps you can get better acquainted and possibly learn the reason for their condition. Is it their inactive job, their cultural habit of snacking, their lack of moderation, a missing exercise program such as walking, their anxiety or depression that makes them want to eat more than they should? Is it a hereditary problem? Or is it the lack of information and no supportive friends?

Once you get to know them and are a trusted friend, it's easier to provide helpful information or to work together on a weight reduction plan. You must be sympathetic and supportive, not judgmental. The same survey indicates that 76 percent of those overweight are interested in changing their condition, and you may be just the person who will make the critical difference in their lives.

You might not be the good Samaritan who picks up the bloody man on the side of the road, but you can lift up the hope and expectation of someone wanting to get control of their weight problem. Having good support and encouragement is one of the keys for success.

> <callout></callout>
> If you fall into the overweight category, seek out supportive friends who can help you keep your commitment to adopt a healthier lifestyle.

_Used by permission of Health Ministries, North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists._