---
title: Dream
---

When you do something important, it is valuable to start with the end in mind. When we think about the end of something, it helps us make wise decisions to get us to the end place. This is also true with parenting. Although you hold a little one in your arms now, and the days can feel long, the years will be short. What might God’s dreams be for you and your baby? How can you be an intentional parent in everyday moments?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Connect**

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Show a symbolic wrapped gift. Invite each person to respond:**_

\+ As you think about the future and imagine your little one all grown up and ready to live their life, what’s the most valuable gift you’d like to have given them? Share responses.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Then personally reflect on this gift in the context of the following questions:**_

\+ Imagine you’re in heaven. How important is your gift, from eternity’s perspective?\
\+ What do you think God’s dream for your little one is? How is it similar to or different from your dream for them?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Explore**

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Pray, inviting the Holy Spirit to guide your discussion.**_

Read Matthew 6:33.

+ What words or phrases stand out to you in this verse? (What makes you say that?)
+ How does this verse inform or change your parenting priorities?

Now read 2 Corinthians 5:20. Discuss these same questions.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Discuss**

Silently read these quotes. Highlight words and phrases as you read, then focus on: something familiar, something surprising, something encouraging, or something to explore more deeply.

+ “But Jesus said, ‘Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven’” (Matthew 19:14, ESV).
+ “As workers for God, our work is to begin with those nearest. It is to begin in our own home. There is no more important missionary field than this.” “The management and instruction of children is the noblest missionary work that any man or woman can undertake” (Ellen G. White, Child Guidance, p. 476).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Share your reflections on these quotes.**_


{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Challenge**

+ On a scale of 1 to 5 (1 being very rarely, and 5 being almost always), how often do you make goals? Do you foresee your goal-orientedness being positive or negative to your parenting?
+ Are you more likely to make or follow up on goals?
+ What other things in your life try to compete with the “seeking first” that Jesus talks about in Matthew 6:33? Be as specific and as honest as you can.
+ How might you overcome this challenge?
+ How do you deal with those moments when you do not succeed in “seeking first” Jesus and the things that are most important?

God has called us to this role of being a parent. We are His ambassadors. Our children will form their picture of God through their interaction with us as they grow.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg"}}}
**Commit**

This week, share some time with your spouse or a friend discussing your big-picture spiritual parenting goals.

+ What could you commit to starting now that will help you stay true to God’s dream for your little one?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648"}}}
_**Pray about this together.**_

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"}}}
**^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl"}}})**\
Commit the spiritual dreams you have for your children to the Lord and ask Him to empower you to be His leader in your home.
 