---
title: "SigaMe (Follow Me): An Experience in Creating a Culture of Discipleship"
---

_Kleber D. Gonçalves, Ph.D._

### Introduction

> <callout></callout>
> “Follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men” (Matthew 4:19, NKJV).

By the Sea of Galilee Jesus Christ offered to two brothers a new path for their lives. Peter and Andrew were invited into a life-transforming experience that would take them from a humble lifestyle as basically unknown fishermen to becoming the very first disciples of the One who called Himself the Son of God. On that day a new and extraordinary process began. Jesus then established the pattern for the first 12 disciples that was later accepted for all who would embrace His passionate invitation: “Follow Me.”

The reality found in many Christian churches, however, is a remarkably different approach from what Jesus Christ experienced with His initial disciples. In today’s reality, typically after a short cognitive “teaching” based on doctrinal and denominational instruction, the prospective “member” is then invited to join the church through baptism with the assumption that the new believer will spontaneously become a committed and devoted disciple. Unfortunately, a purposeful and experiential discipleship process, such as the one modeled by Christ with the first disciples, is generally overlooked. Most Christian communities miss the “in-depth, extensive orientation to being a ‘student of Christ’ in order to be a well-prepared, inspired ‘follower of Christ.’ ”<sup>1</sup> It should not surprise us that the direct consequence is the sad reality of nonfunctional church members, who tend to become mere consumers of “religious goods,” usually during a few hours in just one day of the week, within the four walls of a church building. In other words, very few committed, fully devoted followers of the Master can be found in the disciple-making mandate found in the Scriptures.

We don’t need to be rocket scientists to notice that “something is missing” in many of our churches. There seems to be a disruption between membership and active involvement in ministry. After all, how to develop a significant, active, relevant life as real disciples following the footsteps left by the Master? Besides, if we accept that Christ has already given us an effective and meaningful discipleship model to follow, why not embrace it and fully benefit from its original purpose? How can disciple-making be a transformational and intentional process in every church, focusing every member and permeating every ministry? “Should not disciple-making be the primary goal of the church evangelistic efforts, instead of generally focusing on numerical growth?”<sup>2</sup>

With the above issues in mind, this chapter will first look at the historical roots of the master-disciple relationship, then explore the biblical/ theological basis for discipleship with selected passages from the New Testament, and finally introduce the SigaMe (FollowMe) Forum as a case study in developing a culture of discipleship at the local church level.

### Discipleship: A Historical Journey<sup>3</sup>

All of us would agree that from the earliest days of life on earth, the more skilled have taught the less experienced. This was the way knowledge, abilities, competences, and character were passed through the generations. This concept is clearly seen in the Bible. A significant example is the connection between Paul and Timothy. Timothy was quite young and inexperienced when he first met his mentor. Paul, in turn, openly instructed Timothy how to proceed: “What you heard from me, keep as the pattern of sound teaching, with faith and love in Christ Jesus. Guard the good deposit that was entrusted to you—guard it with the help of the Holy Spirit who lives in us.” “And the things you have heard me say in the presence of many witnesses entrust to reliable people who will also be qualified to teach others” (2 Timothy 1:13, 14, NIV; 2:2, NIV). The instruction was clear: Timothy should keep Paul’s teachings to himself but also intentionally pass on to others what he had learned from his mentor.

This was just an example of how, throughout history, mentors or spiritual guides have helped others maintain spiritual focus and keep a godly life. These relationships involved nurture, skills training, obedience, and intentional search for wisdom.<sup>4</sup> Even though this process is found in most ancient civilizations, the concept of discipleship in the Greco-Roman and in the first-century Jewish cultures is important as a background to better understanding its use, especially in the New Testament period.

### Discipleship in the Greco-Roman Culture

Greece is commonly recognized as the birthplace of Western civilization, and in many aspects discipleship was part of the Greek life. The Greek word μαθητής (_mathētēs_) was used by Herodotus, Plato, and Socrates centuries before Jesus.<sup>5</sup> The term appears frequently in classical Greek literature with three main meanings:<sup>6</sup>

**_Learner/trainee_**: the earliest use of _mathētēs_ referred to a person who was a learner in different fields, such as dancing, wrestling, music, astronomy, and so on. Therefore, the “learner” was acquiring knowledge or skill from an expert to a particular activity.

**_Pupil/apprentice_**: the term then progressed from learner to pupil, thus including the concept not just of learning but also of commitment to an individual teacher. For instance, the disciples of Plato or Socrates were not just learning skills; they were also fervently devoted to their master. Therefore, discipleship during this period became more than just acquiring education.

**_Disciple/adherent_**: additionally, in a deeper level _mathētēs_ also indicated a person who made a significant, personal, life commitment. After the practices were learned, they were to be demonstrated in practical ways. For instance, becoming a disciple of a particular culture now meant that one’s lifestyle should reflect that culture. Taking into consideration the commitment involved, Wilkins notices: “The type of adherence was determined by the master, ranging from being the follower of a great thinker and master of the past like Socrates, to being the pupil of a philosopher like Pythagoras, to being the devotee of a religious master like Epicurus.”<sup>7</sup>

In common use, however, a _mathētēs_ was not a committed follower of a particular master. Direct interaction with a famous teacher, nevertheless, was not a precondition to follow his teachings. For instance, “one could follow the teachings of Socrates simply by adopting the way of life promoted by the person of Socrates as developed in the writings of Plato. A disciple could also conform their habits to a way of life that exemplified the virtues of a particular culture or city.”<sup>8</sup> Toward the end of the Hellenic era the focus gradually shifted to the kind of relationship that demanded a devotion having the potential to affect the follower’s life entirely. In the New Testament period, religious adherents were ultimately called disciples. Learning was minimised in these contexts, where the main focus was the religious devotion and imitation of the master’s life and character. Imitation of the teacher’s conduct became crucial. The emphasis increasingly moved from learning a basic skill to imitation of character and conduct.

### Discipleship in the First-Century Jewish Culture

Similar to the meaning of “disciples” in the Greco-Roman classical era (up to the New Testament period) there were people called disciples in the Judaism of the first century. Such individuals were committed to well-known teachers or movements—independently of their philosophical schools, religious observances, and/or political preferences. Nevertheless, true Jews would call themselves disciples of Moses, regardless of sectarian commitments. Various subgroups had their own followers. For instance, the Pharisees and their disciples openly professed to be Moses’ disciples (John 9:28, 29). They were the precursors of the later relationship between a disciple and a master that evolved into a formal system centered on the teaching of the Torah.

Prophets also had their disciples based not only on learning but also on righteousness and piety. John the Baptist had his own disciples who followed his teachings and practiced his austere lifestyle (Mark 2:18; Luke 11:1; John 3:25; Acts 19:1-7). Qumran also had social structures that could be described as master/disciple within their community.

In general terms, in first-century Judaism, boys were trained in community, having the Torah as the central focus of their “homeschooling” learning process. Primarily the father had the responsibility to teach the Torah to his children. During Jesus’ time evidences suggest that primary schools were established to diminish Hellenistic influences.<sup>9</sup> However, after 13 years of age boys would no longer receive this kind of formal training. If further education was desired, they had to become a disciple under the orientation of a recognized Torah scholar.<sup>10</sup> This was the proper way to master the Mosaic law, Jewish traditions, and the interpretations associated with them. For instance, Paul’s experience was a perfect example of a young man who was sent to study the Torah under Gamaliel, a renowned Rabbi in Jerusalem, thus leaving behind his hometown, Tarsus of Cilicia, for that purpose (Acts 5:34; 22:3).

Especially among Jewish contexts of the first century there is clear evidence that one-to-one discipleship was a common practice. During that period it is possible to find several examples of discipleship as an experience of individuals fully committed to follow a prominent teacher, carrying on his teachings, and imitating his life.

A striking shift, however, in comparing the Greek with the first-century Jewish approach to discipleship is clearly perceptible. In the Hebrew context, _**discipleship was much more than just a cognitive exchange, but included one’s life experience—within the context of community, starting in the family and then with others.**_ In other words, it indicated not only the acceptance of the master’s values and embracing his principles, but ultimately reproducing his ideas and beliefs in practical ways.

### Discipleship in the Old Testament

The apparent lack of specific discipleship terminology is a remarkable aspect that stands out when we go to the Old Testament seeking to find the foundations of the discipling-making process. For instance, the Greek word _mathētēs_ does not occur in the Septuagint.<sup>11</sup> (Rausch 2003:71). This fact, however, does not mean that the notion and practical aspects or different words are not found. On the contrary, two terms, _talmîdh_ and _limmûdh_—although found together only seven times in the whole Old Testament—express the same concept.

#### The Terms “Disciple” in the Old Testament

_Talmîdh_ is the Hebrew equivalent of _mathētēs_. Just as _mathētēs_ (disciple, learner) comes from the verb _manthanō_ (to learn), so _talmîdh_ comes from the Hebrew verb _lāmadh_ (to learn), meaning “the taught one.”<sup>12</sup> _Talmîdh_ as such is used only once in the Old Testament: “Young and old alike, teacher as well as student [_talmîdh_], cast lots for their duties” (1Chronicles 25:8, NIV). Wilkins points out that “within a classification of musicians, the noun indicates a pupil in contrast to a teacher (_mebhîn_), or a novice in contrast to a master. . . . Some have understood this to mean that a formal school existed in Jerusalem for the training of temple musicians.”<sup>13</sup> The text of 1 Chronicles 25:8, therefore, should be seen and understood in the simplest way: a _talmîdh_ is someone who is committed to the learning process or an apprentice learning a specific skill.

The adjective _limmûdh_ (taught), in turn, occurs only six times in the Old Testament, in the books of Isaiah (8:16; 50:4 [twice]; 54:13) and Jeremiah (2:24; 13:23). This adjective also comes from the verb _lāmadh_. In Jeremiah it has the meaning of “accustomed to” something: “Can the Ethiopian change his skin or a leopard its spots? Neither can you do good who are _**accustomed**_ to doing evil” (Jeremiah 13:23, NIV). Here it clearly points to the reality of someone who has been “discipled” or taught to do evil things.

In the book of the prophet Isaiah _limmûdh_ means “taught” or “instructed.”<sup>14</sup> The occurrences of _limmûdh_ in Isaiah are important, especially because scholars have given to the adjective in these passages the connotation of “taught, as disciples,” or “disciple, follower.”<sup>15</sup> The text of Isaiah 8:16 declares: “Bind up this testimony of warning and seal up God’s instruction among my disciples” (NIV). Here _limmûdh_ indicates that a group of disciples were gathered around the prophet Isaiah, listening to the words of God through him. It may also imply that Isaiah personally trained these disciples who could then transmit the prophet’s teachings to others. In other words, while Isaiah may not have had a formal school under his responsibility—such as in Elisha’s case (1 Kings 20:35; 2 Kings 2:3-15; 4:1-38)—he nevertheless gathered a special group of men to share his teachings with them.

Furthermore, Isaiah 50:4, reads: “The Lord God has given Me the tongue of disciples, that I may know how to sustain the weary one with a word. He awakens Me morning by morning, He awakens My ear to listen as a disciple” (NASB).This text implies a familiar category of persons in Israel known as “disciples/taught ones,” who were assumed to have the ability of speaking and attentive listening. Isaiah 54:13, in turn, records that the sons of Zion will be directly instructed by the Lord: “All your children will be taught by the Lord, and great will be their peace” (NIV). The context does not designate the content of the instruction, but the picture indicates those who will be characterized as “God-taught.” This is the same as affirming that they have been committed disciples of God.<sup>16</sup>

It is critical to observe, however, that even tough direct discipleship terminology is very scarce in the Old Testament; discipleship relationships are unmistakably present. They include, for instance, the experiences of Moses-Joshua, Elijah-Elisha, Mordecai-Esther, JeremiahBaruch. Apparently these relationships were not intended to build the case for discipleship. They were in fact unique relationships to fulfill a special work of God in a given circumstance. Yet—perhaps unwittingly— individual master-disciple relationships enabled leadership functions to be passed from one leader to the next. Among the examples of disciple-master relationship in the Old Testament we can emphasize three groups: the prophets, the scribes, and the wise men.

#### The Prophets

The Old Testament indicates that some prophets had followers or disciples. As we have seen above, Isaiah mentions his disciples (Isaiah 8:16). Samuel had groups of “student prophets” around him (1 Samuel 10:5-10) and apparently he was a mentor to his pupils (1 Samuel 19:20-24). In this case the established disciple-master relationship had no connection with a formal school structure but as a community of “prophets” recognizing Samuel as their spiritual mentor.

In a different role, Elijah mentored Elisha, and Elisha later led the “company of the prophets.” With this special group Elisha also established his mentorship (cf. 1 Kings 20:35; 2 Kings 2:3, 5, 7, 15; 4:1, 38; 5:22; 6:1; 9:1). These prophets “were not prophets in training but were rather gathered around Elisha for guidance in performing their own prophetic activities . . . a master-disciple relationship in mutual commitment to service of God.”<sup>17</sup> These men were evidently influenced and learned from Elisha’s example and teachings.

Other prophets reveal a master-disciple interaction with monarchs. Hull writes, “Prophets also seemed to have a special relationship with kings: Isaiah with Hezekiah, Nathan with David, and Samuel with Saul. While not always pleasant for the kings, these odd relationships were often necessary for the spiritual direction of the kings.”<sup>18</sup> Concomitantly, the direction the king took had direct consequences to the whole nation. Nevertheless, leaders of Israel were evaluated according to whether or not they were following God’s instructions. Individual discipleship, therefore, became the basis for national discipleship, since all discipleship relationships were designed to lead individuals and Israel as a nation into a closer walk with the Lord.

#### The Scribes

In a similar way, the scribes also displayed features of the discipleship process. Taking into consideration the very nature of their profession, the scribes would obviously be involved in the student type of training into their daily and basic activities (e.g., reading, copying, and so on). Different abilities were also linked with the scribes. For instance, they got involved in political duties as counselors to members of the monarchy and also in their attempts to fulfill God’s purposes through their services (cf. 2 Samuel 8:16-18; 20:23-25; 1 Kings 4:1-6).

For instance, after the Exile Ezra’s responsibilities as scribe focused on the teaching of the law (Nehemiah 8:1), but such responsibility was also in evidence prior to the Exile (cf. Jeremiah 8:8, 9). Wilkins writes, “Much of the training for these various scribal responsibilities appears to have occurred within the family and clan, which would speak of disciple-master training in these skills being from father to son.”<sup>19</sup> In all of these developments relationships centered in the discipleship processes were not only implied but also essential.

#### The Wise Men

The existence of a professional class of thinkers in the Old Testament to carry on the development of wisdom literature has been a reality for centuries. The need of this occupation was seen crucial in at least three areas: wisdom was a world outlook, a teaching opportunity, and a tradition to be kept. If seen from this point of view, wisdom developments required master-disciple relationships, varying of course in form and function depending on the type of relationships.<sup>20</sup>

A wisdom school is often suggested as being behind this nationwide wisdom organization. Evidence of wisdom emphasis at the royal court gives some weight to this suggestion. But the nonexistence of a “wisdom school” suggests that the master-disciple association was more suitable to be found in family contexts, in elder-leader training, and among “wise men” who were authorities in the wisdom tradition.<sup>21</sup>

Even with the relative lack of discipleship terminology, the essence of the work done by the prophets, the scribes, and the wise men point out to the need of the master-disciple connection in the Old Testament experience. These relationships were crucial for the continuation of the discipleship process that would come in the New Testament period.

### Discipleship in the New Testament

As we have seen so far, discipleship experiences often demanded devotion to the instructions of an outstanding teacher or lessons carried on by a particular cultural context. In the New Testament, however, we find a broader understanding and application of discipleship.

The Greek word μαθητής and its variations appear 263 times in the New Testament: 235 times in the Gospels and 28 times in Acts.<sup>22</sup> The first disciples in the Gospels were actually followers of John the Baptist. The Gospel of John clearly points out that the Baptist recognized his role essentially as someone who would pave the way for the expected Messiah (John 1:23). When Jesus begins His public ministry, John immediately leads two of his disciples to Christ (verses 35-39). After this first encounter Jesus continued His work in gathering the 12 around Him. Gradually Jesus then becomes the great master in the Gospels.

As a direct result of this process, the first disciples of Jesus followed Him wherever He went. On these experiences they observed how Christ reacted in His daily relationships with the multitudes and also with the religious leaders of Israel. They also carefully paid attention to Jesus’ teachings about these interactions and the issues involved.

The cultural understanding of discipleship in the Gospels, therefore, was clearly evident in those who would follow Him. Yet the distinction of Jesus’ ministry from that of the religious leaders was also related to some cultural aspects. For instance, Jesus said: “The teachers of the law and the Pharisees sit in Moses’ seat. So you must be careful to do everything they tell you. But do not do what they do, for they do not practice what they preach. They tie up heavy, cumbersome loads and put them on other people’s shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to lift a finger to move them” (Matthew 23:2-4, NIV). Thus, to become a true disciple of Christ meant to intentionally follow Him, in words **_and_** actions.

In order to further understand this dimension of the Christian discipleship process, I now turn to three of the most important discipleship passages found in the teachings of the Master.

#### Make Disciples

> <callout></callout>
> “Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go. When they saw him, they worshiped him; but some doubted. Then Jesus came to them and said, ‘All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age’” (Matt 28:16-20, NIV).

This is the biblical mandate, commonly identified as the Great Commission, in which Jesus instructs His followers to move outward and make disciples, teaching them in faith, and initiating them into fellowship. The basic components of Matthew 28:16-20 can be seen as follows:

1. Jesus commands His disciples to go to Galilee to be with him (verses 16, 17)

2. Jesus comes to them declaring His authority and sovereignty (verse 18)

3. Jesus then commissions His disciples to a specific task (verses 19, 20)

a. Making disciples is the primary focus of the commission.

b. Going to everyone, baptizing, and sharing Jesus’ teachings to the whole world are the characteristics of the discipleship process.

4. Jesus promises to be with His disciples until the end (verse 20)

**_The Background of Discipleship— Verse 16_**. The phrase “the eleven disciples” just confirms the tragic end of Judas’ experience, followed by suicide (Matthew 27:5). In the attitude of the 11 of going where Jesus had told them, we see—one more time—one of the most important elements of a true discipleship experience: obedience. Looking at the geographical context, Jesus’ ministry finishes where it had started: in Galilee (Matthew 4:15, 16). It sets the context to the fact that Jesus was about to communicate vital instructions to his disciples.

**_The Reality of Discipleship—Verse 17_**. When Jesus suddenly appears to His disciples, worship and doubt were expressed. But how was it possible? Are these reactions mutually exclusive, or could both be realities that happened at the same time within the disciples? Was there another group beyond the 11 at this mountaintop? These are some of the questions this passage brings. A first possibility is that the Gospel of Matthew presents the responses of two different groups among the 11 disciples. It means that among the 11 some worshipped Jesus, but some showed doubt.<sup>23</sup> A second possibility indicates that those who worship and those who doubt are, in fact, the same people. In this case the verb “doubted” might indicate uncertainty rather than disbelief.<sup>24</sup> The disciples’ doubt is therefore not unbelief but another case of “little faith” (Matthew 14:31, NIV). This might also indicate that a disciple still faces situations with a certain level of tension. Somehow, faith cannot exist without the possibility of doubt.

**_The Basis of Discipleship—Verse 18_**. Jesus now affirms that “all authority” has been given to Him. However, before the upcoming commission of the subsequent verse, Jesus assures His disciples of His sovereign dominion over heaven and earth. Several scholars believe that this verse is at least an echo of Daniel 7:13, 14. Nolland affirms that this connection “is very likely, but it implies newly gained authority only if the allusion is not simply to the status of the one like a son of man/ humanity, but to that status as having just been acquired.”<sup>25</sup> A common understanding, nevertheless, is that a newly acquired authority came to Jesus after His death and resurrection. “It is the investiture of the risen Christ with such unrestricted, universal sovereignty, that Jesus now claims and which, especially within a few days, that is after his ascension to heaven, he is beginning to exercise. That is the reward upon his labors.”<sup>26</sup> The term “all” is also a key word in the Great Commission, as it is used not only to describe the greatness of Jesus’ authority—in heaven, over spiritual forces, on earth, and over His disciples<sup>27</sup>—but also to reveal distinctive dimensions that come three more times in the subsequent verses: “all the nations”; “to observe all”; “all the days” (verses 19, 20a, 20b, YLT).

**_The Goal of Discipleship—Verses 19, 20a_**. Literally the original says, “Having gone, therefore, make disciples . . .” The “therefore” gives to the commission its foundation on what has just been presented on the previous verse: Jesus’ power, authority, and sovereignty. Here it is important to highlight that the only verb with imperative force in the Great Commission is “make disciples” (_matheteusate_). New Testament scholars point out to the fact that the participle “having gone” (_poreuthentes_) found in the beginning of the verse should be translated as “as you go.” Jesus is here clearly directing His disciples to go to all the nations with a purpose: make disciples. This is indeed a mission passage. Jesus’ disciples are always commanded to go. Making disciples is “the heart of the commissioning.”<sup>28</sup> The remainder of the verse better defines what it means “to disciple”: baptizing and teaching people from all ethnic groups around the world.

**_The Assurance of Discipleship—Verse 20b_**. Matthew begins his last sentence with one final emphatic emphasis, as if to say, “No one less than I Myself am with you.” Thus, the Great Commission ends with Jesus’ promise of continuous presence with His followers. As Hendriksen writes: “At the beginning, in the middle, and at the end of Matthew’s Gospel, Jesus Christ assures the church of his constant and comforting presence.”<sup>29</sup>

It becomes obvious that the Great Commission was intended beyond the first disciples gathered at that particular circumstance. Obviously the first disciples of Christ could not go to the whole world by themselves to fulfill the new given mission of making disciples. Therefore, the commission is universal in its scope since every true follower of Jesus Christ should be engaged in disciple-making. Furthermore, the message to be conveyed—the eternal gospel of Jesus Christ—is intended for the whole world, with no geographical or ethnical limits.

#### Love One Another

“A new command I give you: Love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another. By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another” (John 13:34, 35, NIV).

This passage in John’s Gospel belongs to the farewell speech Christ shared with His disciples. In the context of these verses (verses 31-38) Jesus confirms one more time His soon departure and predicts Peter’s denial. In the middle of these two announcements Jesus intentionally gives to His disciples “a new commandment” (verse 34, NKJV). However, the command to love one’s neighbor as oneself was not a new teaching to Jesus’ disciples (Leviticus 19:18; cf. Proverbs 20:22; 24:29; Matthew 5:43, 44). Yet the new aspect was Jesus’ command to love one another with a new dimension: “as I have loved you.” In other words, the love is to be of the same nature.<sup>30</sup> Köstenberger writes, “This rule of self-sacrificial, selfgiving, selfless love, a unique quality of love inspired by Jesus’ own love for the disciples, [would] serve as the foundational ethic for the new messianic community.”<sup>31</sup> This was the “new” feature of it.

Christ’s love to humankind in giving up His life for everyone was completely new. Obviously, on one hand, the essence of Jesus’ love for His followers cannot be reproduced by or in themselves. It was an act of love that makes their salvation a reality. On the other hand, every follower of Christ can follow His example. Thus, Jesus’ disciples are to love one another: they should follow His example of sacrificial service to one another. Consequently, a new model and standard was established to the followers of Jesus Christ to obey. It is not, however, something transcending the great moral law, which is “the old commandment” (Exodus 20:3-17; 1 John 2:7; Mark 12:28-33), but that law should be lived in a new and peculiar way.<sup>32</sup>

Jesus continues saying in John 13:35, “by this all will know” (NKJV), referring to the main characteristic of those who decide to follow Him. Christ boldly and unashamedly points out to the ultimate mark of discipleship: if you love one another. Once again, the conjunction “if” is present, indicating that this attitude is a choice—a voluntary and deliberate decision to practice, in love, the example of the Master as a disciple.

#### Follow Me

> <callout></callout>
> “And He was saying to them all, ‘If anyone wishes to come after Me, he must deny himself, and take up his cross daily and follow Me’” (Luke 9:23, NASB).

There are many texts in which Jesus explains in greater detail and with other descriptions the true meaning of being His disciple, but the call to follow Him is the first and probably the most basic explanation. The heart of Christ’s call is to be with Him (Mark 3:14) and to know Him intimately (cf. 1 Corinthians 1:9; Philippians 3:10). It is a dynamic process that indicates a voluntary movement toward Jesus.

The invitation “follow Me” is found in a number of references in the Gospels. It first appears in the calling of the first disciples (cf. Matthew 4:19; Mark 2:14; Luke 5:1-11; John 1:43). The pattern of the calling is well defined: (1) Jesus chooses the ones He would call; (2) He summons them; and (3) the response was immediate. The same pattern is repeatedly found in the Gospels.<sup>33</sup>

Among the “follow Me” calls of Jesus, Luke 9:23 undoubtedly better elucidates the cost involved in following the footsteps of the Master. Bock says: “The path of following Jesus, in light of where he is going, is hard. Jesus prepares the disciples for the journey, expressing it simply in terms of wishing ‘to come after him.’ This remark sets the context for interpreting what follows.”<sup>34</sup>

In the passage, discipleship includes three crucial instructions: “deny oneself,” “take up daily,” and “follow Me.” The sequence presented in the text indicates that out of the personal and essential decisions made about the self and the bearing of the cross on a daily basis comes a transformational process—the real experience of following Jesus. In other words, real discipleship demands transformation.

It is important to emphasize that Jesus starts His call with the conjunction “if.” Using this conditional word, the Gospel of Luke makes it clear that Christ is not commanding anyone to do anything, but actually He is inviting His followers into a journey, a new way of life, an experience that will bring them everlasting fulfillment. In other words, Jesus’ invitation is a choice one needs to make in order to follow Him.

The ultimate aspect of the invitation is “follow Me.” In the New Testament this verb occurs primarily in the Gospels (79 out of 90 occurrences). It has two literal meanings: “follow” in the sense of “go behind” and “follow” in the sense of “making company.” By metaphorical extension, it also means “be a disciple of,” in the sense of adhering to the teaching or instructions of a master and promoting the cause of that master.<sup>35</sup> It is remarkable that this figurative meaning of “follow” is found only in the four Gospels and in Revelation 14:4, when the 144,000 follow the Lamb regardless of the cost.

In Luke 9:23, as noted above, one can obviously perceive some of the most pressing elements of discipleship: obedience, repentance, submission, and commitment.<sup>36</sup> As we look at these and other elements of discipleship, one question yet remains: What would happen if what Jesus intentionally did to 12 men more than 2,000 years ago could be done again today, in our churches? This is the purpose of the SigaMe Forum to which we now turn.

### SigaMe: Creating a Culture of Discipleship

The _SigaMe_ (FollowMe) forum started while I was still pastoring the _IASD Nova Semente_ (New Seed SDA Church) in São Paulo, Brazil.<sup>37</sup> The main goal? To create a culture of discipleship at the local church level, in our own church, and also to inspire and motivate similar actions with other pastors and church leaders. Is this possible? In reality, this is not a matter of possibility. It is an issue that involves responsibility and a calling: the responsibility to fulfill the command that Christ has left us: “Go and make disciples of all nations”; the call to live the real experience of love and to fully accept the invitation “Follow Me.”

The _SigaMe_ forum is a unique annual event that has happened at Nova Semente since 2014. The first edition was a two-day event. But in the subsequent years it became a daylong gathering, usually on a Sunday, where participants can better understand and above all share true experiences on following Jesus. During _SigaMe_ participants are challenged to rediscover the meaning of the Master’s invitation to each of His followers and how to best develop tools to make this a reality in their own lives.

During the event, essential elements<sup>38</sup> of the discipleship process are explored in different sessions in which, after a brief 25-minute reflection led by an expert and/or a practitioner on the topic, participants can have a unique relational discipleship experience in discussions, exchange of experiences, and spiritual interactivity in a small group setting comprised of six to eight people around a table specifically prepared for this purpose.

The open and enriching dialogue about discipleship generated through this intentional format has created a unique learning environment at _SigaMe_. One of the first lessons we have learned is that for those who are looking for ways to improve the discipleship experience in their own churches, they must first do a self-analysis and then consider how their personal discipleship understanding and practice needs to grow. We believe this has been one of the first steps in creating a culture of discipleship at the local church level.

Second, how can we encourage and motivate other people and churches to have a real discipleship experience if we as leaders have not yet lived that experience in our own lives? In other words, any real and life-transforming discipleship experience does start with each one of us. Before we can make a disciple, we truly need to become one. Attending and participating in the FollowMe forum has provided unique opportunities to establish a new vision and practice in that direction.

Third, we have also learned that an interactive relational discipleship experience has the potential to challenge, inspire, and transform the participants’ perspective on what it means to be and make disciples for Jesus.

### Conclusions

Historically speaking, we can essentially find two paths for discipleship. The early Greek understanding of discipleship was, to a great extent, to sit under a teacher/master to gain knowledge. In other words, discipleship was centered more on _intellectual understanding_, more of a cognitive exchange of ideas and/or philosophical, political, and religious convictions. First-century Jewish understanding and practices of discipleship, on the other hand, were centered more on _following_ the rabbi/teacher, sitting at his feet not only to gain knowledge but also to learn how to do what he did, how to live as he lived. Basically, the first-century Jewish discipleship process was focused on how to become like the master. Jewish disciples were life learners of the Torah, where this process primarily occurred in the context of community.

As we have also seen, the lack of discipleship terminology in the Old Testament does not mean the absence of its concepts and practices. Although few words are used to describe the master-disciple relationship, several practical examples found in the Old Testament express the essence and extent of the discipleship process. However, the New Testament discipleship, especially in the Gospels, is centered on the dynamics of following Jesus, learning not only from His teachings but also from His own life examples. The New Testament _mathētēs_ is more than just a “student” or “learner.” A true disciple of Christ is a “follower,” someone who completely obeys His instructions—in theory **_and_** practice—making His teachings the rule of life and conduct.

Comparing the discipleship elements found in the New Testament passages analyzed in this chapter—such as obedience, transformation, and love—with the current state of discipleship within in the Seventh-day Adventist Church, I tend to come to the conclusion that, unfortunately, the church, in general terms, still places considerable emphasis on the Western, Greek-based intellectual/cognitive aspect of discipleship. This emphasis is not entirely wrong, but it is not enough. Discipleship needs to have a deeper understanding and practice. In many parts of the world the “Christian life” of Seventh-day Adventists is limited to a couple of hours, on Sabbath morning, within the limits of four walls of a church building. Most of them are good church members, but unfortunately have never understood nor lived the life of a real disciple of Christ during the ordinary days of the week.

Discipleship does not happen overnight. Through the _SigaMe_ initiative in creating a culture of discipleship I have learned that real discipleship takes intentionality and time. In spite of their importance, discipleship curricula, event-based training, and resources readily made available are not enough. Planning and implementation of a discipleship process at the local church level must take into consideration the oneon-one approach as well as a community-based structure as found in the biblical examples of discipleship. This new approach to discipleship could be made on a pilot-basis level and in different cultural contexts before it is mass-distributed to the world church.

Finally, the radical nature and cost of biblical discipleship involved in the call Jesus places before us is more than just intellectually accepting doctrinal instruction. If we are to operate up to our mission statement as it reads (“The mission of the Seventh-day Adventist Church is to call all people to become disciples of Jesus Christ, to proclaim the everlasting gospel embraced by the three angels’ messages [Revelation 14:6-12], and to prepare the world for Christ’s soon return”), we need more than numerical growth, we need more than church members: we need real disciples who have accepted in their minds and in their hearts the call: “Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.”

_Kleber D. Gonçalves was born in Brazil and has served the Seventh-day Adventist Church in the areas of publishing work, pastoral ministry, church planting, and teaching. Kleber serves the world church at the General Conference as the director of the Global Mission Center for Secular and Postmodern Studies. He is married to Nereida C. Gonçalves, and they have three children: Isabella, Nichollas, and Gabriella._

**Endnotes:**

<sup>1</sup> Dan Kohn, _Discipleship in the Postmodern Age: One Disciple’s Journey . . . and Yours_ (Bloomington, Ind.: Xlibris, 2010), p.12.

<sup>2</sup> Kleber D. Gonçalves, “Transforming Discipleship: Opportunities in Following the Master in a Postmodern World,” _Journal of Adventist Mission Studies 12_, no. 2 (2016): 278.

<sup>3</sup> I have originally published this subsection, with minor changes, in Ibid., pp. 278-281.

<sup>4</sup> Bill Hull, _The Complete Book of Discipleship: On Being and Making Followers of Christ_ (Colorado Springs, Colo.: NavPress, 2006), pp. 52, 53.

<sup>5</sup> Michael J. Wilkins, _The Concept of Disciple in Matthew’s Gospel: As Reflected in the Use of the Term “Mathētēs,” Novum Testamentum supplements_ (Leiden, The Netherlands: E. J. Brill, 1988), vol. 59, pp. 11, 12.

<sup>6</sup> Ibid., pp. 70-73.

<sup>7</sup> Michael J. Wilkins, “Disciples,” in _Dictionary of Jesus and the Gospels_, ed. Joel B. Green, Scot McKinght, and I. Howard Marshall (Downers Grove, Ill.: InterVarsity, 1992), p. 176.

<sup>8</sup> Everett Ferguson, _Backgrounds of Early Christianity_ (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2003), p. 330.

<sup>9</sup> Ibid., pp. 102, 103.

<sup>10</sup> D. F. Watson, “Education: Jewish and Greco-Roman,” in _Dictionary of New Testament Background_, ed. Craig A. Evans and Stanley E. Porter (Downers Grove, Ill.: InterVarsity, 2000), pp. 308-310.

<sup>11</sup> Thomas P. Rausch, _Who Is Jesus? An Introduction to Christology_ (Collegeville, Minn.: Liturgical Brothers, 2003), p. 71.

<sup>12</sup> James Swanson, “Lamadh,” _Dictionary of Biblical Languages With Semantic Domains: Hebrew (Old Testament)_, electronic ed. (Oak Harbor, Wash.: Logos, 1997), p. H4340.

<sup>13</sup> Michael J. Wilkins, _Following the Master: A Biblical Theology of Discipleship_ (Grand Rapids: Zondervan, 1992), p. 55.

<sup>14</sup> Walter C. Kaiser, “Lamadh,” _Theological Wordbook of the Old Testament_, ed. R. Laird Harris, Gleason L. Archer, and Bruce K. Waltke (Chicago: Moody, 1980), p. 480.

<sup>15</sup> Francis Brown, S. R. Driver, and Charles A. Briggs, _The Brown-Driver-Briggs Hebrew and English Lexicon_ (Peabody, Mass.: Hendrickson, 1994), p. 541.

<sup>16</sup> Wilkins, _Following the Master_, p. 56.

<sup>17</sup> Ibid., p. 64.

<sup>18</sup> Hull, p. 58.

<sup>19</sup> Wilkins, _Following the Master_, p. 56.

<sup>20</sup> James L. Crenshaw, _Old Testament Wisdom_ (Louisville, Ky.: John Knox Press, 2010), pp. 24, 25.

<sup>21</sup> Ernest C. Lucas, _Exploring the Old Testament: A Guide to the Psalms and Wisdom Literature_ (Downers Grove, Ill.: InterVarsity, 2008), pp. 40-43.

<sup>22</sup> James Strong, “Μαθητής,” _Strong’s Exhaustive Concordance With Greek and Hebrew Dictionary_, electronic ed. (Oak Harbor, Wash.: Logos, 1980), p. G3101.

<sup>23</sup> K. L. McKay, “The Use of Hoi De in Matthew 28:17: A Response to K. Grayson,” _Journal for the Study of the New Testament 24_ (1985): 71.

<sup>24</sup> David E. Garland, _Reading Matthew: A Literary and Theological Commentary, Reading the New Testament_ (Macon, Ga.: Smyth and Helwys, 2013), pp. 271, 272.

<sup>25</sup> John Nolland, _The Gospel of Matthew: A Commentary of the Greek Text, The New International Greek Testamentary Commentary_ (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 2005), p. 1264.

<sup>26</sup> William Hendriksen, _Matthew, Exposition of the Gospel According to Matthew_ (Grand Rapids: Baker, 1984), p. 998.

<sup>27</sup> James M. Boice, _Christ’s Call to Discipleship_ (Grand Rapids: Kregel, 1998), pp. 160-162.

<sup>28</sup> David J. Bosch, _Transforming Mission: Paradigm Shifts in Theology of Mission_ (Maryknoll, N.Y.: Orbis, 1991), p. 73.

<sup>29</sup> Hendrikson, p. 1003.

<sup>30</sup> Marvin R. Vincent, _Word Studies in the New Testament_ (New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1887), p. 236.

<sup>31</sup> Andreas J. Köstenberger, _John_ (Grand Rapids: Baker, 2004), pp. 423, 424.

<sup>32</sup> Robert Jamieson, A. R. Fausset, and David Brown, _Commentary Critical and Explanatory on the Whole Bible_ (Oak Harbor, Wash.: Logos, 1997), vol. 2, p. 155.

<sup>33</sup> Wilkins, _Following the Master_, p. 107.

<sup>34</sup> Darrell L. Bock, Luke 1:1–9:50, ed. Robert W. Yarbrough and Robert H. Stein, _Baker Exegetical Commentary on the New Testament_ (Grand Rapids: Baker Academic, 1994), p. 852.

<sup>35</sup> David E. Aune, “Following the Lamb: Discipleship in the Apocalypse,” in _Patterns of Discipleship in the New Testament_, ed. Richard N. Longenecher (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1996), p. 275.

<sup>36</sup> Boice, pp. 17-20.

<sup>37</sup> For a brief story of the first steps of New Seed SDA Church, see Kleber D. Gonçalves, “The Challenge of the Postmodern Condition to Adventist Mission in South America,” _Journal of Adventist Mission Studies 5_, no. 1 (2009): 14-16.

<sup>38</sup> The first edition of the SigaMe forum (2014) was entitled “Essential Elements of Discipleship.” The discipleship elements explored were: communion, intentionality, community, obedience, service, submission, and transformation. In the subsequent years discipleship elements and themes were extracted from: “The Parables of Jesus” (2015); “The Lord’s Prayer” (2016); “A Church That Makes Disciples” (2017); “Mission Issues in the Contemporary Society” (2018).