---
title: Running Your Church Media Ministry
subtitle: Chapter 12
---

Today it’s become more achievable than ever for local churches to utilize technology for ministry and to produce local media content. One benefit of sharing audio or video of your own church’s sermons, seminars, or evangelistic events is that it can attract the people in your community to your church rather than to a distant television or Internet personality. Seeing a local impact can also motivate more church members to support and become personally engaged in sharing media.

Here’s a sampling of the ways local churches can use technology for ministry:

- Produce DVDs and CDs for sharing
- Livestream church services and events
- Broadcast on TV or radio
- Operate local church websites
- Build a social media presence
- Utilize a website to offer Bible studies or to promote a series of evangelistic meetings
- Advertise on the Internet and employ strategies for search engine optimization

Media trends vary greatly in different parts of the world. The goal of a local church should be to communicate the gospel using every type of media actively used in its own community. Of course, this can feel overwhelming if a church is just beginning to use technology for ministry. So another good principle is to expand the ministry in every area that can be done well. While we want to scatter as many seeds of truth as possible, in as many ways as possible, we should never stretch our ministry so thin that we sacrifice quality and misrepresent our Lord.

#### Old Technology or Cutting Edge?

The world has changed a lot in the past few decades. In the 1980s we began the switch from audio cassettes and vinyl music records to CDs. In the 1990s people started carrying around cellular phones, and the Internet exploded onto the scene, opening the way for email, video calling, online shopping, and a host of other lifestyle-altering inventions. In the 2000s phones were transformed into miniature computers with the dawn of the smartphone. And in the 2010s people started finding out the news and weather and adjusting their thermostats by talking to their new electronic friends, Siri and Alexa.

With the dizzying speed at which technology has changed the way we live, is it any wonder that the church has had a hard time keeping up? After all, some of our current church leaders’ grandparents grew up going to church in a horse and buggy! It can be helpful to remember that people and cultures adapt at different rates to changing technology. Factors such as age, background, culture, and availability each have an effect on the speed at which advancements are embraced. So should the church explore cutting-edge technology? Yes! Should we hang on to old technology? Yes again! In order to engage and minister to a wide range of people, it’s important that we have a wide range of technology options and that we leave no one behind.

#### Finding Technical Help

There are few areas of ministry that require as much technical knowledge as media ministry. This chapter will give you a vision of what can be done and instruction in certain essentials to guide in the oversight of a well-rounded media ministry. However, it isn’t possible in one short chapter to equip someone with the technical skills needed to livestream church services, launch a website, advertise over the Internet, or perform similar tasks. This is why one of the most important steps in establishing an effective media ministry is finding capable personnel.

Different areas of technology require different levels of technical skill. For instance, a reasonably tech-savvy member of your congregation may be capable of recording on video and audio, duplicating CDs and DVDs, and creating social media accounts. It may be harder to find someone who can create a website, set your church up to livestream its services, or utilize Internet advertising. The key is not to eliminate a ministry idea simply because you don’t know anyone who knows how to do it. You just might know someone who knows someone!

If upon reading this chapter you feel impressed to launch a particular media ministry idea, but you don’t feel you have the technical knowledge to do it, try one or more of the following:

- If it isn’t too technical, you may be able to gain the knowledge needed by searching on Google or YouTube, such as: “How to Set Up a Church Facebook Account.”
- Survey your congregation or put an announcement in your church bulletin to identify hidden talents among the members of your church.
- Contact your conference communication or media technology departments for advice and potential suggestions of skilled individuals who could perform the task at a reasonable price.
- Look for churches that are effective in the area you are wanting to launch, and ask them for advice or references of people who could help your church.
- Consult with organizations that specialize in digital evangelism.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
One ministry specializing in digital evangelism ideas and support is the Center for Online Evangelism. Visit www.centerforonlineevangelism.org.

If you contract with someone to help you with a task, such as building a website, it is vital that a representative from the local church carefully oversee the project. To illustrate this importance, imagine that you ask someone to paint your house. Since the painter is the expert, you decide to leave the detailed decisions up to the painter. When you come home, you find that the paint has been applied to perfection, but there’s one problem. The color is the ugliest you’ve ever seen! Even though the painter is the “expert,” you still need to know what you want and give the oversight and direction to make sure it happens. Similarly, though someone else may have the technical ability needed to build a website, you need to have a vision of what you want and ensure that the end product meets your needs. This is vital. The practical instruction in this chapter will give you a basic vision of what is needed in different media ministry areas both to guide you and to help you guide others.

#### The Local Church Media Team

> <callout></callout>
> The need for more extensive media ministries continues to grow.

For many churches “media ministry” has historically consisted of one or two people to operate the sound system and maybe a video projector. But times are changing. As technology becomes more and more interwoven into our daily lives, the need for more extensive media ministries continues to grow. While there is no personnel structure for this ministry outlined in the Church Manual, it is still wise to assemble a team either to perform the various tasks involved or to oversee paid contractors. These tasks and their duties may include, but would not be limited to, the following:

**Livestream Plus Recording/Editing**—Ensure the smooth livestream of church services and events, and record these messages on audio and video. Record short videos of events and activities in the life of the church, including member testimonies and interviews, to be posted on the website and social media. Help with the setup of sound equipment, cameras, lighting, digital recorders, projectors, screens, and any other media equipment needed at church services and events. Ensure that postediting of audio and video files is completed.

**CD and DVD Duplication**—Ensure that recordings of the Sabbath morning messages, evangelistic meeting sermons, and other recorded seminars and events are duplicated and made available on CDs and DVDs for sharing. Be sure to obey any local copyright laws that may apply to sermons, music, photos, or illustrations.

**Website Administration**—Oversee the development and maintenance of the church website, ensuring that it is updated regularly with fresh content. If someone else is responsible for site maintenance, provide electronic files of video and audio content such as sermons, seminars, and concerts to be uploaded.

**Social Media Administration**—Oversee the creation and maintenance of the church’s social media accounts. Approve and post videos, quotes, photos, event invitations, and more to the church’s social media accounts and YouTube channel on behalf of the church.

**Internet and Social Media Advertising and SEO**—Oversee the church’s Internet and social media advertising campaigns and its search engine optimization (SEO) strategy.

The responsibilities above require a broad range of technical skills. It could be that your church already has an audiovisual team that handles the church’s sound system and sermon recordings, but perhaps no one on this team has the technical knowledge to administer a website or social media account. This is why different people with various skill sets must often comprise the media ministry team rather than expecting one or two people to do everything. A good approach is to appoint a leader to assemble a media team and to serve on the local church’s personal ministries council. The media team is a great opportunity to involve a wide range of people, especially young people, in an important ministry of the church.

#### Plan and Budget

Once your local church has appointed a media ministry leader and begun to assemble a media team, plans should be laid for the year ahead. This will likely require input from the pastor, elders, or personal ministries council. Once a plan is in place, a budget should be developed and presented to the church board for approval. Here are a few thoughts to consider when preparing the budget:

**Equipment and Supplies**—Conducting a local church media ministry will require an investment in equipment and supplies. This could include cameras, lighting, digital recorders, computers, editing software, duplicators, recordable media, and more. The wisest course for most churches is to make a modest initial investment and then gradually upgrade or add to their equipment as the ministry grows. A good start might include a modestly priced video camera, a digital audio recorder, and a computer. Your church may also need to pay for a good Internet service if you plan to livestream or to upload 
electronic files.

**Platform Decor**—Evaluate the area to be captured by your video recordings with questions such as: Is it organized, clean, and attractive? Does the podium need upgrading? Would flowers or plants help to make the area more appealing? Is better lighting needed? Whether these items will come out of the media ministry budget or not, you will want to present these needs to the board.

**Internet and Social Media**—If you want a new website but no one in your church has the technical ability to create one, you may have to hire someone to help you. The same could be true of setting up Internet advertising, search engine optimization, or other tasks requiring a certain level of expertise. Be sure to include estimates of these and any other expenses related to your Internet presence and social media accounts in your budget.

#### Recording Services and Events

One of the first and most important steps for a local church media ministry is to get into the habit of recording sermons, concerts, evangelistic meetings, or other notable events. Pastors or elders asked to speak at an event outside the local church can utilize a recording device so that even these sermons are captured and made available through the church’s media ministry. Churches with successful media ministries are those that produce a steady stream of Bible-based teaching, preaching, music, and other content. The rule of thumb is that websites and channels that are rarely updated are rarely visited.

Of all that can be recorded by the local church, perhaps the most basic and essential is the Sabbath morning sermon. People who begin viewing these sermons not only are blessed by the preaching of God’s Word, but also begin to establish a connection with the local congregation and speaker. A close second to the Sabbath sermon in terms of potential impact is an evangelistic seminar or series of sermons preached by a local church pastor or layperson. Members can multiply the reach of these messages by sharing them long after the event has ended. Once again, the tendency of viewers to connect with the speaker can be a motivating factor in leading them to visit your church.

> <callout></callout>
> Websites and channels that are rarely updated are rarely visited.

Share a few simple tips with anyone who will be captured on video. For instance, speakers should be encouraged to engage not only with the live audience but also with the camera, noting those who are watching online or who may watch the recording later. Speakers should be instructed to hide their microphone and recorder cords in their shirts or jackets rather than leaving them in plain sight, dangling in front of them. If there will be platform participants sitting behind the speaker, make sure they know that the camera will also be on them. They should dress appropriately, pay attention, and avoid falling asleep for the camera! The more your church records its messages and events, the better everyone involved will become at ensuring the highest quality possible.

Local churches can also benefit from assigning members who will take pictures and record short videos at various events and activities in the life of the church. These might include cooking schools, community service events, church socials, and much more. Short testimonies and interviews of church members, often taken on cell phones, can be shown during Sabbath School and church services, posted on the website, and shared on social media.

A word of caution is needed here. Be aware of any privacy laws in your territory before taking pictures or videos and posting them on the Internet or social media. Obtain written permission or whatever else might be required before sharing these media on public platforms.

#### CD and DVD Ministry

Physical forms of media, while they may not be around for much longer, can still be effective in certain territories and demographic groups. In these cases, duplicating Sabbath morning messages on CDs can provide great opportunities for sharing. It is best to duplicate these recordings as soon as possible to seize the moment when members are interested in listening to it a second time or sharing it with others.

A full evangelistic series on DVD is another great use of physical media. These DVDs can be made available in the same area as your church’s literature display. Consider sorting and stocking the series by individual DVD rather than packaging the entire series together. This allows members to share one or two messages at a time with their friends, family, and coworkers, and avoids waste if an interest decides not to finish the series.

If your church isn’t yet recording local content, consider contacting a larger media ministry to ask permission to duplicate and distribute their messages on CDs and DVDs.

#### Livestreaming

YouTube Live, Facebook Live, and many similar services have made video streaming very popular. As it becomes more common, people are using online church services to evaluate whether or not they want to attend in person. Offering an online experience can subdue the fear of the unknown and give people the level of comfort or familiarity they need to visit your church.

The benefits to be gained by livestreaming Sabbath services and other special events are abundant. One of the greatest advantages is that members who are homebound because of illness or weather can watch the services and feel included. Your church members will also appreciate the ability to invite anyone, anywhere, to watch their church’s services. The only requirement to watch is a good Internet connection. And perhaps one of the least appreciated, but most impactful, benefits of livestreaming is that many people will discover your church’s messages simply by browsing the Internet.

Streaming your services doesn’t require an elaborate or complex setup. While investing in higher quality equipment is certainly preferable, many churches have successfully started streaming with only a smartphone. Different video platforms attract different viewers, so you might consider maintaining accounts with a variety of platforms to reach an even greater audience. Be sure also to publish links to fresh audio and video content on the church’s website and social media accounts.

#### TV and Radio Broadcasts

As a general rule, local churches don’t have the resources to finance or operate television or radio stations. However, this doesn’t mean that these forms of media cannot be included in a local church media ministry. Contact local television and radio stations, generally Christian ones, to see if they would consider broadcasting your services or hosting a daily five-minute devotional or a 30- or 60-minute program on health or Bible topics. It may require funding, but sometimes these stations are looking for good programming to fit into available time slots. This kind of ministry often works best when a group of Adventist pastors and churches collaborate together to make it happen.

#### The Church Website

Every local church with access to the Internet should utilize a church website to engage its community. It’s quickly becoming just as important to provide a pleasant online experience as it is to have smiling greeters in the church foyer each Sabbath. The location of the all-important first impression has changed for many people. They will go to the Web to find the address for the church, to see what it’s about, to see what ministries they can get involved in, and to see what worship services are like. Many people are deciding whether or not to try out a church based solely on what they first see online.

For these reasons and more, a well-designed church website is an invaluable tool for all aspects of the church’s mission. Bible studies, sermons, health programs, community service opportunities, mission trips, musical concerts, and other events or ministries your church provides should be featured and regularly updated on the church website. The home page especially needs to showcase fresh content that points people to upcoming events, new media, free Bible studies, and ministry opportunities. One of the biggest mistakes made by local churches is an out-of-date or static website. Not only is this a lost opportunity, but it can create a negative impression that actually discourages people from attending 
your church.

A church website will generally include, but not be limited to, the following elements:

**Evangelistic Home Page**—Many websites provide information about the church, but aren’t intentional about offering content and services. Use prime space on the home page to invite website visitors to do such things as view your latest videos, request free Bible studies, leave prayer requests, subscribe to devotionals and newsletters, or get updates on upcoming events. The more intentional you are about extending offers, the more people you will find who are interested.

**Church Address and Phone Number**—Contact information and service times are perhaps the most important information on the site. Include the church address and phone number on the home page and in the header or footer of every page. The address should be a hyperlink to an online GPS map program for immediate access to voice-guided directions. As for voicemail messages, be sure to respond within no more 
than 24 hours.

**Church Service Times**—This information should also be easy to find on the home page and preferably be part of the header or footer on every page. Include a minimum of Sabbath School, church, and midweek service times.

**Church Bulletin**—It can be very helpful to include the church bulletin in PDF format on the home page. Post the bulletin for the upcoming Sabbath a few days ahead of the service, and archive previous bulletins for those who were unable to attend.

**About Us**—This page should share summary information about the worldwide Seventh-day Adventist Church as well as the local congregation. Include an attractive photo of the inside and outside of the church. A summary of the church’s mission and beliefs could be included, or a link to a separate “What We Believe” page. Information about church leadership could be included, with pictures and bios. Finally, share a simple list of what to expect from a church visit, such as children’s Sabbath School, average service length, fellowship lunch, and a warm and welcoming atmosphere.

**Streaming and Media**—Include a page where you will livestream your services and events, post weekly Sabbath sermons, and keep archives of audio and video recordings. It is especially important for this page to have fresh content. Try to limit the time needed to post a sermon to only a few days. Members will often go to the website to view or share a message that’s recent in their memory, but if it’s not available, they may not return. The longer it takes to post a video or audio, the less impact it generally has.

**Events**—This page should advertise evangelistic events but can also include a full calendar of events in the life of the church. This is another page that is very important to keep up-to-date.

**Ministries**—This page is primarily for church members and attendees. More than merely providing a list and description of the ministries of the church, it should provide a way for people to sign up or volunteer in their areas of interest.

**Contact Us**—In addition to listing the address and phone number on this page, provide a form or email address for people to send you correspondence.

In addition to the above components, there are several other factors to consider in order for your church website to be effective:

**Public-friendly**—Remember that your site is on the World Wide Web. Everything on it should be suitable for people who know nothing about Seventh-day Adventists. It isn’t the place for Adventist lingo, sensitive financial information, in-depth beliefs that require a foundation that hasn’t been laid, obscure quotes by Ellen White that require context or explanation, or communications that are more for members than the public.

**Mobile-friendly**—Today far more people access the Internet on their phones than on their computers. This means that even more important than your site’s desktop version, it must have a mobile-friendly design that looks attractive and works perfectly on smartphones.

**Appealing Design**—Website styles experience changing trends. Be sure your design and user interface are appealing and up-to-date. This will generally require getting ample feedback from a broad range of people, including those of younger generations and those with experience in website design.

**Good Photos**—Don’t underestimate the value of attractive photos. The church should identify its most talented photographers and make arrangements for good photos to be taken at events and services. In addition to the website, these photos can be used on social media, in church newsletters, and in any other public relations tools the church may use. Don’t use photos randomly downloaded from the Internet. If you want to use someone else’s photos, visit a website that offers stock photos. Some of these are free, but many images require a fee in order to obtain the rights to use them. Try to avoid using photos that are used by other church sites.

**Don’t Overwhelm**—Use brief and simple descriptions with plenty of white space and compelling images. Use sufficiently large font sizes, ample line spacing, and wider margins for easier readability and a more open feel. If significant reading is required, provide a link to a separate page or downloadable file.

**Easy Navigation**—Users should be able to go anywhere they want on the site with just a few clicks and get to the most important information with a single click. Include links on the home page to all site content and cross-links on pages with related information.

**Easy to Share**—Include links that make it easy to share content on various social media platforms (Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, etc.).

**Adventist Identity Guidelines**—Always comply with the Seventh-day Adventist denominational visual identity guidelines.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
For detailed guidelines, go to www.identity.adventist.org.

### Social Media

Billions of people all over the world actively use social media every day. Just as Jesus went where the people were in His day, we should find ways to reach people where they are in our day—on social media. Here are some simple steps you can take to develop a social media presence for your local church:

**Set Up Church Social Media Accounts**—Local churches can develop their own social media accounts on platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram using simple online processes. Church leaders should consider recruiting members who are knowledgeable in social media to assist in this setup.

**Choose Administrators**—Carefully select the individuals who will oversee your church social media accounts. In addition to having technical knowledge and ability, administrators must also be discreet and discerning and have a mature understanding of personal ministries and outreach. Assigning more than one administrator can prevent being locked out of your accounts and can make transitions smoother.

**Choose Content to Post**—Administrators should post content that can be reposted on church members’ accounts with the purpose of reaching their friends. Invitations to church events can be posted regularly. The scripture reading for each upcoming Sabbath service can be posted with an invitation to Sabbath School and church. Post short videos or messages containing devotional thoughts, testimonies, church updates, or ministry reports. It’s important that every post rightly represents the message, mission, and spirit of the church. Because posts on church accounts are made on behalf of the church family rather than an individual, they should never push personal or political agendas. Remember, too, that they are intended for curious seekers as much as church members. Nothing should ever be posted on social media that is intended for church members only. If needed, posts can also include a link to the local church website—the church’s primary online home.

**Consider Multiplatform Posts**—Churches can use social media posting systems to post to multiple platforms at once. By creating an account with one of these social media schedulers, they can post simultaneously to church accounts on Facebook, WhatsApp, WeChat, Twitter, Instagram, and others. Doing this can help the church reach a wider range of demographics than if they were only to choose one platform. For instance, in some regions of the world Facebook is currently more popular with older generations while Instagram appeals more to the youth.

**Take Pictures and Video Recordings**—As mentioned previously, someone could be designated to take pictures and short video clips at church events to share on social media. Don’t be afraid to post simple videos. In today’s culture, even politicians sometimes skip high-quality productions and choose to release raw videos taken from a smartphone. Quality productions made with choice cameras and lighting are still preferable when the church has the resources, but videos taken from a smartphone are certainly acceptable.

**Promote Social Media Accounts**—The church’s social media addresses should be printed in bulletins and other printed materials such as church posters and mailers. Invite attendees at health, prophecy, or other church services and events to “like” or “follow” church social media accounts. Once they do this, they will continue to see your church’s posts. The more followers and likes your accounts get, the wider your social media influence will become.

**Consider Messenger Bots**—Messenger or chat bots are computer programs that use artificial intelligence to simulate a conversation. For instance, a messenger bot can automatically send out mass messages to anyone that shares a new popular video your church just released. When people respond to the message, the bot sends out another automated message with a predetermined reply. Your administrators can finish the conversations in person when they log in to the account. This approach can increase personal connections in social media.

**Consider Social Media Advertising**—Churches can buy paid social media ads for targeted groups in their community. This kind of social media advertising has been very effective for many churches. Through strategic and frequent social media advertising, they have increased attendance at evangelistic meetings and other events and generated many requests for free Bible studies and literature.

#### Evangelistic Websites

In addition to the church website and social media pages, there is also value in participating in specific website ministries such as www.bibleschools.com or www.biblestudyoffer.com that can be used by local churches to offer free Bible studies. To become a participating church is simple and free. Then if someone who lives in the area of your church requests Bible studies through the website, the church is assigned that individual to follow up. Churches are also notified when Internet users in their area study lessons online.

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
For information on how to utilize bibleschools.com in your church’s Bible study ministry, email discoverschool@vop.com. For more about biblestudyoffer.com, visit www.biblestudyoffer.com/info.

Another kind of website that can be effective for local churches is one dedicated to a series of evangelistic meetings. Ministries that offer evangelistic handbills and supplies often provide dedicated websites or Web pages that can be used by local churches to advertise their evangelistic meetings and preregister guests. Using these dedicated websites with online preregistration processes has helped churches to increase both their number of interests and their actual meeting attendance.

Churches can also obtain QR codes for all their websites. By including a QR code on advertising materials, people are led directly to the site after scanning the code with a smartphone. Free QR codes for each of your church websites may be obtained from an online QR code generator and then printed on your event flyers and other advertising materials.

### Internet Advertising and SEO

Churches naturally become interested in search engine optimization (SEO) as they get serious about the online mission field. SEO refers to the strategy used to ensure that a website appears high on the list of search results when certain key words or phrases are used. The algorithms used by search engines to determine where your church will appear on a list of websites is constantly changing. If a church wants people in its area to see its website when searching for “Jesus,” “Bible,” “prophecy,” “church,” “Sabbath,” “Second Coming,” or other key words and phrases, it will need a search engine optimization strategy.

In addition to search optimization, churches can pay for Internet advertisements through Google and other search engines. This can be a very effective way to target advertisements toward people who search for specific words or phrases. Let’s say you want people in your area who are interested in Bible study to see your online Bible study offer. You can pay for your website to appear in an advertisement at the top of the page when people in your area search for “Bible study.” Cost is then incurred only when the individual who sees the ad clicks on it. This kind of targeted advertising can be a cost-effective way of finding people who are interested in studying the Bible. Internet advertising can also be used to advertise your evangelistic meeting website to anyone searching for “prophecy” or similar words and phrases that you choose. Someone will likely need to test different words and phrases to discover the most effective approach.

### The All-Important Follow-up Plan

If a local church takes to heart the ideas shared in this chapter, it will no doubt find many people who have an interest in subjects of eternal significance. Equally important to finding these individuals, however, is to follow up with them regularly. This is neglected far too often. Many churches make the mistake of failing to make regular contact with individuals who don’t immediately start Bible studies or begin attending church. A vital key to the success of any ministry, including media ministry, is to establish a systematic follow-up plan that incorporates regular correspondence, invitations, and offers directed toward individuals who have expressed interest. Much of this can be scheduled and accomplished using digital methods such as group or individual emails, texts, social media messages, or social media advertising. In addition to these, the plan should also incorporate more personal methods, such as visits 
and phone calls.

### Final Encouragement

Seventh-day Adventists have been given a message to proclaim to the world. Could it be that God wants to use advancements in technology to equip His people for their special mission? The truth is that electronic media are already playing a significant part, both for good and for evil, in the last struggle between light and darkness in this world. Every Seventh-day Adventist church and every member can utilize such media and digital technology to be a light on a hill. We can be a voice of hope in the midst of immorality, corruption, and despair. Let us not grow timid now. The world needs the message God has entrusted to us. It is time for thousands of Adventist churches to cover TV, radio, the Internet, and social media with seeds of hope and divine truth. Jesus is coming soon!

{"style":{"text":{"size":"sm"}}}
For more best practices, tips, and training in digital evangelism, visit www.centerforonlineevangelism.org or www.sdadata.org.