---
title: Discipline
subtitle: Week 8
---

Discipline is an important way that we love our children, though it is not always a pleasant process. In many languages “discipline” is semantically related to the word “disciple,” reminding us that every gentle effort made to train and direct our child’s behavior is preparing them to be a faithful disciple of Jesus.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Connect

+ There are many forms of so-called discipline that wound a child’s soul and body. What are some forms of discipline you’ve experienced or heard about that are not appropriate or even very harmful?
+ If Jesus were an earthly parent, what would be some forms of discipline you could imagine Him using with His little ones?

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Explore

In pairs, divide the following passages. Read and discuss these verses for several minutes, then return to the group and share your verses and insights.

+ Hebrews 12:11
+ Proverbs 22:6
+ Ephesians 6:4
+ Proverbs 29:15, 17
+ Proverbs 6:20-23
+ Revelation 3:19
+ Proverbs 3:11, 12
+ Deuteronomy 6:6-9

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Discuss

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#bf9648", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-BoldItalic"}}}
Read the following silently, then share with the group the ideas that stood out to you. What is challenging? What is confronting? What do you want to remember?

“Parents, you should commence your first lesson of discipline when your children are babes in your arms” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 230).

“Neglecting the work of disciplining and training until a perverse disposition has become strengthened is doing the children a most serious wrong; for they grow up selfish, exacting, and unlovable. They cannot enjoy their own company any better than can others; therefore they will ever be filled with discontent. The work of the mother must commence at an early age, giving Satan no chance to control the minds and dispositions of their little ones” (Ellen G. White, _Child Guidance_, p. 230).

“The education of the child is to begin in the home. There it is to learn the lessons that are to guide it throughout life…Self-will, hasty words, are never to be allowed to go unrebuked. Parents should realize the sacredness of family discipline. The children are to be taught to respect themselves, because they are the Lord’s property, bought with an infinite price” (Ellen G. White, _Manuscript Releases_, vol. 10, pp. 323, 324).

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "size": "lg", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}}
Challenge

+ Are there teenagers or young adults in the church who you feel have been raised well? Consider asking their parents about the methods and principles of discipline they used when their children were still young.

{"style":{"text":{"color": "#a65726", "align": "center"},"wrapper": { "backgroundImage": "https://sabbath-school-resources-assets.adventech.io/en/aij/2025-03-bb-pth/assets/pray-cover.png", "backgroundPosition": { "x": "center", "y": "top" }}}}
^[Pray]({"style":{"text":{"size": "xl", "typeface": "BaskervilleBT-Bold"}}})\
Ask God to give you a heart of humility and tenderness when\
disciplining your children. Ask specifically for wisdom\
to know how and when to begin.